1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA PUSAT 
BERTAULIAH 
 
 
SOALAN PENILAIAN PENGETAHUAN (SUBJEKTIF) 
KOD UNIT CORE ABILITY Z-009-4:2015 CA05 
NAMA UNIT  ABILITY STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
NAMA CALON  
NO.KAD PENGENALAN  
MASA  
TARIKH  
MARKAH  
 
Arahan kepada calon: 
1.  Tulis nama dan nombor kad pengenalan calon pada ruangan yang disediakan; 
2. Calon tidak dibenarkan membuka kertas soalan sehingga dibenarkan; 
3. Calon hendaklah menjawab semua soalan; 
4. Calon dilarang membawa nota atau sebarang bahan rujukan kecuali yang dibenarkan. 
5. Dilarang meniru semasa penilian; dan 
6. Dilarang membawa keluar kertas soalan dari bilik peperiksaan 
 
KERTAS PENILAIAN INI MENGANDUNGI ...02.... MUKA SURAT BERCETAK 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
   
   


----PAGE BREAK----

2 
 
Soalan 1  
 
a. Briefly describe the three (3) basic principles of thinking skills:  
(5 Marks) 
            
b. State and briefly explain the types of budgeting styles that are available under the 
budget strategy.  
(5 Marks) 
c. Define what is competency and analytical skill.  
( 4 Marks) 
d. According to some surveys, work stress is the biggest source of stress in our lives.  List 
four (4) potential causes of work stress  
(2 Marks). 
 
 
Soalan 2 
 
a. State and explain the five (5) quick stress reduction techniques?  
(10 Marks) 
 
b. Discuss the steps to solve problem using a problem solving model.  
(10 Marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

3 
 
 
ANSWER SCHEME 
 
 
a) Briefly describe the three (3) basic principles of thinking skills:  
i) Principle 1 - “The creation of new knowledge (to the owner) may not necessarily 
result in innovation but it is a precursor to the instigation of that process.” The most 
powerful attribute of conceptual model building is that the owner can actually create 
and build new knowledge in excess of that which contributed to the development of 
the initial model. In order for learners to be able to think laterally, they must first 
create in their minds a conceptual framework/model of understanding. It is only then 
that they can build on this framework and improve upon it. If learners have only 
facts to work with, they cannot create new information from these alone. 
 
ii) Principle 2 – “Thinking is a discipline and as such calls for changes in the way we 
carry out our daily activities, and make decisions, and that requires a           
                 consciousness of thought.” In other words in order for learners to think about  
                 what they're doing they need to be encouraged into a discipline of  
                 questioning, and reflecting on their thoughts and thought processes and  
                 content. This is often referred to as metacognitive activity. It is the ability to  
                 think about your own thinking. 
 
iii) Principle 3 – “Knowledge can also be thought of as a product that can be      
                collectively constructed/created (new knowledge).” Inevitably some educators  
                will make the mistake of believing that unless there is concrete evidence in a  
                physical format of the learner's understanding, then the learner does not  
                understand the concept or principal being discussed.  
 
b) State and briefly explain the types of budgeting styles that are available under the budget 
strategy. 3.1: Classic categories 
            The classic budgeting style is to sit down, figure out your income, and then  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
            assign spending limits to your most common expense categories. The idea is to  
            try to limit the spending in each category.  
 
     3.2: Zero-based 
            With this budgeting style, you give every dollar a job. It’s very regimented, and            
            works best for those who know exactly how much money is coming in each  
            month, and when it comes in. You account for all of your spending ahead of  
            time,in an effort to come to zero each month.  
  
    3.3: Envelopes 
           One of the best ways to keep track of your spending is to use the envelope  
           system, and pay for everything in cash. The idea is to set up envelopes, labeled  
           with categories, for variable spending. Once the cash is gone from the  
          appropriate envelope, you are done. You can move cash from envelope to  
          another, but you don’t get more cash from your account. This forces you to spend  
          conscientiously, carefully thinking through your purchases. 
 
   3.4: Priority-based 
          All of important priorities are covered first, and then just spend until the rest is  
          gone for the month. This requires that to track a spending so that it don’t  
          overdraw the account, but it doesn’t require to set up limiting categories. 
 
c) Define what is competency and analytical skill. (4 Marks) 
    Competency" is a cluster of related knowledge, skills, and attitudes that affects a  
    major part of one’s job (a role or responsibility), that correlates with performance on the  
    job, that can be measured against well-accepted standards, and that can be improved  
    via training and development. For example - you might have good interpersonal skills  
    (skills), but will not be competent to join a company as Project Manager unless you  
    possess adequate education / experience (knowledge) and the right temperament /  

----PAGE BREAK----

5 
 
    behaviour (attitude). 
 
Analytical skills 
Analytical skills are the ability to visualize, gather information, articulate, analyse, solve 
complex problems, and make decisions. Such skills include demonstration of the ability to 
apply logical thinking to gathering and analysing information, designing and testing solutions to 
problems, and formulating plans. This skills are essential in the workplace to ensure necessary 
problem solving occurs to keep productivity and other areas of the workforce functioning 
smoothly. 
 
 
d) According to some surveys, work stress is the biggest source of stress in our lives.  List 
four (4) potential causes of work stress (2 Marks). 
           Answer: 
i) Being unhappy in your job 
ii) Having a heavy workload or too much responsibility 
iii) Working long hours 
iv) Having poor management, unclear expectations of your work, or no say in the 
decision-making process 
v) Working under dangerous conditions 
vi) Being insecure about your chance for advancement or risk of termination 
vii) Having to give speeches in front of colleagues 
viii) Facing discrimination or harassment at work, especially if your company isn't 
supportive 
  
 
Soalan 2 
c. State and explain the five (5) quick stress reduction techniques? (10 Marks) 
               i) Humour 
              a) Humour is one of the greatest and quickest devices for reducing stress. 
              b) Humour works because laughter produces helpful chemicals in the brain. 
              c) Humour also gets your brain thinking and working in a different way. It distracts  

----PAGE BREAK----

6 
 
                  you from having a stressed mindset. Distraction is a simple effective de- 
                  stressor It takes your thoughts away from the stress, and thereby diffuses the  
                  stressful feelings. Therefore most people will feel quite different and notice a  
                  change in mindset after laughing and being distracted by something humorous. 
  
          ii) Brisk walk and self-talk 
              a) Change your environment. Go for a short quick brisk walk outside by leave the  
                  workplace building. 
              b) Breathe in some fresh air and smell the atmosphere. Trees, rain, flowers,  
                  traffic fumes stimulate your senses with new things. 
              c) On your way out keep saying to yourself out loudly.  
              d) You can extend the exercise by going to a park and jogging a little or doing  
                  something energetic to get your body moving and relaxing. 
              e) You can use other mantras or chants, depending on what you want to do and  
                  how far you want to get away from the stress causes.  
              f) Sometimes the people said this is daft, but the daftness reduces the stress by  
                 removing you from the stress in mind and body.  
 
         iii) Rehydrate 
              a) Get a big cup or a bottle of plain water. Most of us fail to drink enough plain  
                  water. 
              b) All of your organs, including your brain, are strongly dependent on water to  
                  function properly. If you starve, your body will function below your best  
                  physically and mentally.  
             c) Most of workplaces commonly have a very dry atmosphere due to air 
                 conditioning, which increases people's susceptibility to de-hydration.  
             d) When you drink lot of water you need to pee. This gives you a bit of a break  
                 and a bit of exercise now and then, which also reduces stress.  
  
        iv) Catnap or powernap 
             a) Take a quick nap. It is nature's way of recharging and re-energising. 
                 A 10-30 minutes' sleep is very helpful to reduce stress. 
           

----PAGE BREAK----

7 
 
 
         v) Make a cuppa 
            a) Making a cup of hot drink especially tea and coffee take your mind off your  
                problems.  
 
        vi) Crying 
             a) Crying and weeping proper tears has a powerful helpful effect on stress levels.  
                 Sobbing and weeping does seem to release tension and stress for many  
                 people. 
 
 
 
 
b. Discuss the steps to solve problem using a problem solving model. (10 Marks) 
            a. Identify the problem. 
            b. Explore the problem. 
            c. Set goals. 
            d. Look at Alternatives. 
            e. Select a possible solution. 
            f.  Implement a possible solution. 
            g. Evaluate 

----PAGE BREAK----

8 
 
                      
  
Figure 3 – Seven step Problem Solving Model 
 
 
           a. Identify the problem 
               When you are boggled with problems, you feel a generalized and global worry  
               about things. It is very important to pin point the source of your worry and  
               anxiety. List down your problem so that you can come up with possible  
               solutions. This is the most important stage in the problem solving strategy. Think  
               about what irritates you most and where the trouble spots are. Do not be  
               frightened due to the load of problem you are facing. Think positive and trust  
               your intuition. 
 
           b. Explore the problem 
               When you are clear about what the problem is you need to think about from  
               different angles. Analyze the problem in different ways is may help you find  
               an effective solution. Some problems are very obvious, however others are not  
               so easily identified. There are some technique to explore the problem such as  


----PAGE BREAK----

9 
 
               PEST analysis, SWOT analysis, Ishikawa analysis, PARETO analysis, Risk  
               analysis, Failures Mode and Effect analysis and After Action Review 
 
           c. Set goals 
               Once you have thought about the problem from different angles you can identify  
                your goals or what you want to achieve? Working out a goals is a vital part of  
                the problem solving process.   
 
            d. Look at Alternatives  
                When you have decided what your goal/s is you need to look for possible  
                solutions. The more possible solutions will be able to discover an effective  
                solution. You can brain-storm for ideas. The aim is to collect as many alternative 
                solutions as possible because some of the best solutions may arise from  
                creative thinking during brain-storming. By taking the time to generate a range of  
                creative solutions to the problem, you'll significantly increase the best possible  
                solution, 
 
            e. Select a possible solution 
                From the list of possible solutions, sort out which are most relevant to a situation  
                and which are realistic and manageable. When you have explored the  
                consequences, you can identify the solution which is most relevant to you and is  
                likely to have the best outcomes for your situation. 
 
            f.  Implement a possible solution 
                Once you have selected a possible solution, you'll have many options to put it  

----PAGE BREAK----

10 
 
                into action. Decide what elements are needed for a realistic and practical  
                solution, and think about the criteria you'll use to choose between potential  
                solutions. You will need to have energy and motivation to do this because  
                implementing the solution may take some time and effort. You can prepare  
                yourself by planning when and how to do it.  
 
            g. Evaluate 
                Evaluating of the solution is very crucial. If the solution was successful in solving  
                a problem, then you have effectively solved your problem. If you are not happy  
                with the result, then you may choose another option from the list of  
                brain-storming solutions, which will be most likely to produce the desired result.  
                Useful techniques such as Paired Comparison Analysis, Decision Matrix  
                Analysis and Risk Analysis are available in decision making. 
 