# Z-009-2-2015\MODULE 04 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ADAPTATION\Kertas Penerangan 4.1a.PDF

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
 
 
 
         
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-2: 2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
2 (TWO) 
NO.  DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
 
CA04 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
ADAPTATION 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN  /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
04.01 DEMONSTRATE HEALTH COMPLIANCE 
04.02 DEMONSTRATE SAFETY COMPLIANCE 
04.03 DEMONSTRATE ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015–M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  19 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE: OSH LEGISLATON 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the ability to demonstrate level of 
understanding in Health, Safety and Environment adaptation and apply it to work activities. 
The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to adapt to HSE by executing 
his/her duties while observing Health, Safety and Environment Rules and Regulations.  
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1. Occupational Safety And Health Act 1994 
Employees themselves are also obliged to take care of their own safety and well-
being. It is not right to urge other people to give priority to the workers’ safety and not 
force the workers themselves to have regards due to their own safety. Thus, Section 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN 
PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET )

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of:  19 
24 is incorporated to emphasis the fact that this duty is the responsibility of everyone 
including the workers as well. The section explains that it shall be the duty of every 
employee while at work – 
1.1 
to take reasonable care for the safety and health of himself and of other 
persons who may be affected by his acts or omissions at work; 
1.2 
to co-operate with his employer or any other person in the discharge of any 
duty or requirement imposed on the employer or that other person by the Act 
of any other regulation; 
1.3 
to wear or use at all times any protective equipment or clothing provided by 
the employer for the purpose of preventing risks to his safety and health; and 
2. to comply with any instruction or measure on occupational safety and health 
instituted by his employer or any other person by or under the Act or any 
other regulation. 
 
This section therefore stresses the importance of the employees to be reasonably 
careful of his own safety as well as to foresee the safety of other people who is 
likely to be affected by his acts or omissions at work. It also compel the workers to 
cooperate and comply with any instructions and orders given by their employers or 
any authorized persons for their own sake. Any person who contravenes this 
provision shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not 
exceeding RM1,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or 
both. 
 
Penalty for contravening the provisions is a fine of RM1k and jail term not 
exceeding 3 months or both. 
 
Person who intentionally, recklessly or negligently interferes with or misuses 
anything provided or done in the interest of safety, health and welfare in pursuance 
of this Act shall be guilty of an offence who can be fined RM20k and jail term not 
exceeding 2 years or both.

===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of:  19 
No employer shall levy on his employee any actions done in pursuance of this Act 
or its regulations. 
An employee cannot be penalised if he makes a compliant on a matter he 
considers not safe, becomes a member of a safety and health committee or 
exercises his functions as a member in the committee. 
 
2. Safety And Health Committee 
One fundamental aspect of a good safety management is to have the involvement of 
both the employers and employees to participate actively in this area. The law 
recognises this fact and incorporates Section 30 in OSHA. This section compels every 
employer with more than 40 employees or as directed by the Director-General of 
Safety and Health to establish a safety and health committee at the place of work. The 
composition of the committee consists of a chairman, a secretary and representatives 
of both the employer and the employees. The employer himself or his authorised 
manager shall be the chairman and the secretary shall be the person who is employed 
as the safety and health officer at the place of work. Where no SHO is available at the 
work place (because it does not fall under the category of industries which need to 
employ one), the chairman must appoint one of them as the secretary by ballot. 
 
3. Worker Participation 
Worker participation is an essential element of the OSH management system in the 
organisation. 
i. 
The employer should ensure that workers and their safety and health 
representatives are consulted, informed and trained on all aspects of OSH, 
including emergency arrangements, associated with their work. 
ii. 
The employer should make arrangements for workers and their safety and 
health representatives to have the time and resources to actively participate in 
the processes of organising, planning and implementation, evaluation and 
action for improvement of the OSH management system. 
iii. The employer should ensure, as appropriate, the establishment and efficient 
functioning of a safety and health committee and the recognition of workers’

===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of:  19 
safety and health representatives in accordance with national laws and 
practice. 
 
 
4 Factories And Machinery Act  
4.1  
Factories and Machinery Act 1967 
 
Floors. 
(1) Every part of any floor where any person is likely to pass shall be: 
 
(a) maintained in a level, good and non-slippery condition to afford safe walking 
and where necessary safe trucking or handling of materials; and 
 
(b) free from holes, splinters, improperly fitted covers for gutters or conduits, 
and free from protruding nails, projecting valves or pipes or other projections 
or obstructions which present stumbling hazards. 
(2) The floor or working level surrounding all machinery shall be maintained in good 
and level condition, and so far as practicable free from any loose material and in 
non-slippery condition. 
(3) Where any process is carried on which makes any floor or working level wet, it 
shall be suitably graded and adequate means of drainage shall be provided and 
maintained. 
(4) Suitable and effective means shall be provided and maintained to remove from 
any floor or working level any storm or flood water. 
(5) Every part of any floor, working level, stair tread and landing shall not be made of 
any. 
 
 
 
 
Access to place of work. 
(1) Clear and unobstructed space shall be provided and maintained at all machinery 
to enable any work thereat to be performed without unnecessary risk, and to 
permit of free and ready access to any part necessitating regular operation, 
inspection, maintenance or removal. 
(2) Where materials or goods or other articles are necessarily stacked between any 
machines or workbenches, clear aisles or gangways to such machines or 
workbenches shall be provided and maintained, and such aisles or gangways 
shall be clearly marked on the floor and no materials or goods or other articles

===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of:  19 
shall be stacked on such aisles or gangways. 
 
 
 
 
Openings. 
(1) Openings generally to be fenced. 
 
Every hatchway, chute, pit and trap-door opening shall be- 
 
(a) securely fenced by removable railings with toe boards on not more than two 
sides and permanent guard rails with toe-boards on all other exposed sides; 
or 
 
(b) securely guarded by a flush-hinged floor opening cover of adequate 
strength, equipped with railings attached thereto so as to leave only one 
side exposed when the cover is open. When the opening is not in use the 
cover shall be closed or the exposed side guarded. 
(2) Stairway opening. 
 
Every stairway opening except at the entrance thereto shall be fenced on every 
exposed side by guard rails and toe-boards. 
(3) Floor openings. 
 
Every manhole floor opening shall be securely fenced by manhole covers of 
adequate strength, which need not be hinged. Every other floor opening into 
which persons can accidentally walk shall be fenced either by permanent guard 
rails with toe-boards on all exposed sides or by hinged floor opening cover of 
adequate strength. 
(4) Floor opening cover. 
 
When floor openings covers are not in place, the openings shall be constantly 
attended by someone or protected by portable enclosing guard rails. 
(5) Teagle openings. 
 
Every teagle opening or similar doorway used for hoisting or lowering goods or 
materials, whether by mechanical power or otherwise, shall be securely fenced, 
and shall be provided with secure handhold on each side of the opening or 
doorway; such fencing shall, except when the hoisting or lowering of the load is 
being carried on at the opening or doorway, be kept in position. 
 
 
 
 
Stairway. 
(1) Where any person is regularly employed on any floor above the ground floor, a 
stairway shall be provided to give access thereto. Such stairway shall- 
 
(a) be not less than thirty-six inches wide except that any secondary stairway

===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of:  19 
may be not less than thirty inches wide; 
 
(b) have a pitch of not less than twenty degrees nor more than forty-five 
degrees to the horizontal; 
 
(c) 
have not less than six feet nine inches headroom measured from the top of 
any tread in line with the face of the riser; 
 
(d) have a height of not more than twelve feet between landings; 
 
(e) have a landing if a door is provided at the top of the stairway; and 
 
(f) 
where it is 
 
 
(i) 
less than thirty six inches in width, be equipped with at least one hand 
rail on the right side descending; 
 
 
(ii) 
thirty six inches or more in width, be equipped with a guard rail on any 
exposed side and a handrail on any enclosed side; and 
 
 
(iii) seventy two inches or more in width be equipped as in sub-paragraph 
(f)(ii)above and in addition with an intermediate guard rail 
 
 
 
Provided that where there are two or less number of risers, the 
foregoing provisions of this paragraph need not apply. 
(2) Stairway landing. 
 
Every landing on a stairway shall not be less than twelve square feet in area. 
(3) Stairway handrail. 
 
The handrail of every stairway shall be continuous 
 
 
 
 
Fixed ladder. 
(1) Where access to any working level, platform or deck is provided by means of a 
fixed ladder, such fixed ladder shall- 
 
(a) where inclined, have a guard rail on each side; or 
 
(b) where vertical: 
 
 
(i) 
have suitable hand-rails or hand-holds at the upper landing; 
 
 
(ii) 
be so arranged that the distance from the front of the rungs thereof to 
the nearest fixed structure on the climbing side is not less than thirty 
inches; and 
 
 
(iii) be fitted with such safety loops as may be required by an Inspector. 
(2) (a) There shall be provided in every factory where there is any overhead 
transmission machinery a suitably constructed portable ladder of sufficient 
length to service such machinery. 
 
(b) Every portable ladder shall be fitted with suitable effective non-skid devices.

===== PAGE 7 =====
7 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of:  19 
 
(c) 
An Inspector shall order any portable ladder, which in his opinion is 
damaged beyond repair or otherwise defective, to be destroyed. 
 
 
 
 
Catwalk, runway or gangway. 
(1) Where any catwalk, runway or gangway is provided exclusively to give access to 
machinery or from on place to another, such catwalk, runway or gangway shall 
be provided with guard-rails on both sides, and toe-boards at least four inches 
high; and shall not be used as a working platform. 
 
 
 
 
Lubrication of unfenced machinery. 
Unfenced machinery shall not be lubricated by hand from a catwalk, runway or 
gangway while the machinery is in motion, unless arrangements are provided to 
supply the lubricant from a position wholly within the fencing of the catwalk, runway or 
gangway. 
 
 
 
 
Access to catwalk. 
(1) Access to any catwalk, runway or gangway shall be by means of a permanent 
ladder or stairway. 
(2) Catwalks, runways or gangways shall be provided as an Inspector may direct. 
 
 
 
 
Ramps. 
Every ramp used by persons for ascent or descent from one level to another shall be 
limited to a slope of not more than one in ten and shall conform to all relevant 
requirements for construction, width, guard-rails and hand rails applying to stairways. 
 
 
 
 
Working at a height. 
Where any person is required to work at a place from which he will be liable to fall a 
distance of more than ten feet, means shall be provided to ensure his safety and such 
means shall where practicable include the use of safety belts or ropes. 
 
 
 
 
Confined spaces. 
(1) Where any work has to be done inside any chamber, tank, vat, pit, pressure or 
other vessel or other confined space in which dangerous fumes are liable to be 
present to such an extent as to involve risk to any person being overcome 
thereby, such confined space shall, unless there is other adequate means of

===== PAGE 8 =====
8 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of:  19 
egress, be provided with a manhole; such manhole may be rectangular, oval or 
circular in shape, and shall not be less than sixteen inches wide or not less than 
eighteen inches in diameter if circular. 
(2) No person shall be required or permitted to enter any confined space unless- 
 
(a) all practicable steps have been taken to remove any fumes which may be 
present and to prevent any ingress of fumes; 
 
(b) it has been ascertained by a suitable test that the confined space is free 
from dangerous fumes: 
 
 
Provided that where such test cannot be carried out the person entering a 
confined space shall wear an efficient respiratory protective device suitable 
for the dangerous substance that is to be expected and a suitable safety 
belt with attached life line of adequate dimensions leading to a convenient 
point outside the tank or vessel; and 
 
(c) 
a reliable and competent person is stationed at the entrance to the tank or 
vessel to supervise the operations and to take such action as may be 
necessary in any emergency. 
(3) Suitable respiratory protective device, reviving apparatus, belts and ropes shall 
be provided and maintained, and shall be readily accessible. 
(4) A sufficient number of persons employed shall be trained in and familiar with the 
use of such dangerous liquids. 
 
 
 
 
Vessel 
(1) Every fixed vessel, structure, sump or pit of which the edge is less than three feet 
six inches above the adjoining floor, platform or working level and which contains 
any scalding, corrosive or poisonous liquid, thereby creating risk of accidental 
immersion of any portion of the body of a person therein shall either be securely 
covered or securely fenced to at least three feet six inches. 
(2) A warning notice, indicating the nature of the danger, shall be prominently 
marked on or attached to the vessel, structure, sump or pit or, if this is not 
reasonably practicable, be posted prominently nearby. 
 
 
 
 
Containers for volatile inflammable substances. 
(1) Every drum, can or similar vessel containing volatile inflammable substances 
shall be kept securely closed when not in actual use, and shall, after the contents 
have been emptied, be removed without delay from the premises in which they

===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of:  19 
are used; and adequate arrangements shall be made to convey to a safe place 
any such substance which may escape due to failure of any vessel or leakage or 
overflow or accidental discharge thereof. 
(2) Only such quantity of volatile inflammable substances required for work in one 
day shall be allowed to be taken into any room or cabinet in which such 
substances are used: Provided that this provision shall not apply to any room or 
cabinet used as a laboratory in which work of an investigative nature is being 
carried on and where adequate precautions in respect of the safety and health of 
persons have been taken. 
 
 
 
 
Precaution against ignition. 
(1) No fire, flame or naked light or other agent likely to ignite volatile inflammable 
substances or the fumes there from shall be allowed inside any room or cabinet 
in which such substances are used or stored: Provided that this provision shall 
not apply where such room or cabinet is being used as a laboratory in which work 
of an investigative nature is being carried on and where adequate precautions in 
respect of the safety and health of persons have been taken.  
(2) No person shall smoke in any room or cabinet in which volatile inflammable 
substances are used or stored and there shall be posted in a conspicuous place 
in such room or cabinet a notice prohibiting smoking. 
(3) No tank or vessel which contains or has contained any volatile inflammable 
substance shall be subjected to any operation which involves the application of 
heat, until all practicable steps have been taken to remove the substance and 
any fumes arising there from, or to render them non-flammable; and if any tank or 
vessel has been subjected to any such operation as aforesaid, no volatile 
inflammable substance shall be placed in such tank or vessel until the metal has 
cooled sufficiently to prevent any risk of igniting the substance: 
 
Provided that this provision shall not apply to work of an investigative nature 
where adequate precaution in respect of the safety and health of persons has 
been taken. 
 
 
 
 
Precautions with regard to explosive or inflammable dust, fume or substance. 
(1) Where in connection with any process carried on there is given off any 
inflammable or explosive dust fume or other substance and where there is a 
possibility that such dust, fume or substance and where there is a possibility that

===== PAGE 10 =====
10 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  10 
Drpd / of:  19 
such dust, fume or substance may escape into any workroom to cause an 
explosion, all steps shall be taken as far as practicable to prevent such an 
occurrence- 
 
(a) by enclosure of the plant used in the process and if necessary 
 
 
(i) 
by isolation of the plant from any other building; or 
 
 
(ii) 
in the case of a plant which is located in a room by separating the 
room from any other room by fire resisting walls of a type approved by 
the Inspector and any door therein shall be self-enclosing and fire-
resisting; and 
 
(b) by the removal or prevention of the accumulation of the dust, fume of 
substance; and 
 
(c) 
by the exclusion or effective enclosure of all possible sources of ignition. 
(2) Where there is present in any plant used in any process dust of such a character 
and to such an extent as to be liable to cause an explosion steps shall be taken 
to restrict the spread and effects of such an explosion by provision of chokes, 
baffles and vents or other equally effective appliances, unless the plant is so 
constructed as to withstand the pressure likely to be produced by such explosion. 
(3) (a) No volatile inflammable substance shall be applied except in a room or 
cabinet, specially constructed for the purpose, of suitable fire-resistant 
material, or in the open air in a suitable place completely isolated for a 
radius of not less than fifteen feet. 
 
(b) Every such room or cabinet shall be kept clean and all fans, ducts, trunks or 
casings used to exhaust any fumes shall be made of fire-resistant materials 
having an interior smooth surface which shall be kept clean and in good 
working order. All scraping necessary to comply with this sub-paragraph 
shall be carried out with non-ferrous implements. 
(4) For the purpose of these regulations volatile inflammable substances means 
cellulose solutions (including solutions which contain cellulose acetate, cellulose 
nitrate or celluloid), absolute alcohol, petroleum and other products of low flash-
point. 
 
 
 
 
Stacking of material. 
(1) Material stacks or pipes shall be placed on firm foundations not liable to settle 
and shall not be subject to a weight so as to overload the floor. 
(2) No material shall be stacked-

===== PAGE 11 =====
11 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  11 
Drpd / of:  19 
 
(a) against partitions or walls of buildings, unless it is known that the partition or 
wall is of sufficient strength to withstand the pressure; and 
 
(b) to a height which would render the stack or pile unstable. 
 
 
 
 
Bags. 
(1) Bagged material shall be stacked or piled in the following manner- 
 
(a) the mouths of the bags shall be placed inwards; 
 
(b) the first four end bags of each pile shall be cross tied; and 
 
(c) 
a step back of one bag shall be made at every fifth bag in height. 
(2) (a) Loaded boxes, crates, and cartons shall be stacked or piled on the sides 
having the largest area and not to such a height as to cause collapse of the 
lower boxes, crates or cartons in the stack or pile: Provided that where the 
nature of the contents require special ways of stacking the provisions of this 
sub-paragraph need not apply; and 
 
(b) loaded carton stacks shall be protected against moisture. 
 
 
 
 
Pipe and bar stock. 
(1) Pipe and bar stock shall be piled- 
 
(a) on stable storage racks so located that the withdrawal of the material does 
not create a hazard; or 
 
(b) in layers resting on wood strips with stop blocks fixed on the ends or on 
metal bars with upturned ends. 
 
 
 
 
Cylindrical objects. 
(1) (a) Where empty drums or barrels, large pipes, rolls of paper or other cylindrical 
objects are piled on their sides- 
 
 
(i) 
the pile shall be symmetrical and stable; and 
 
 
(ii) 
every unit in the bottom row shall be effectively wedged. 
 
(b) Where loaded barrels, drums or kegs are piled on their ends, two planks 
should be laid side by side on top of each row before another row is started. 
 
 
 
 
Safety provisions in case of fire. 
(1) Every factory building shall be provided with not less than two exits from every 
floor. 
(2) Where persons are employed in any floor situated below or above the ground

===== PAGE 12 =====
12 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  12 
Drpd / of:  19 
floor, means of escape in case of fire shall be provided and maintained. Such 
means of escape shall: 
 
(a) communicate directly with the outside air; 
 
(b) be sufficient in the opinion of an Inspector for all persons employed; and 
 
(c) 
if provided with any door, such door shall be fitted so as to open outwards 
from the room, passage, or staircase from which it is a means of escape 
and shall not be kept locked or fastened and shall be free from obstruction 
while persons are present in the room, passage or staircase. 
(3) Every window and door affording means of escape in case of fire or any 
emergency exit, other than the means of exit in ordinary use, shall be distinctively 
and conspicuously marked by a notice printed in red letters of an adequate size 
indicating the purpose for which it is to be used. 
(4) The occupier of every factory shall ensure that all persons employed are familiar 
with the means of escape in case of fire, the use of such means and the routine 
to be followed in case of fire. 
(5) The contents of any room in which persons are employed shall be so arranged or 
disposed that there is free gangway to enable all persons employed in the room 
to have access to a means of escape in case of fire. 
 
 
 
 
Fire fighting appliances. 
In every factory there shall be provided and maintained, so as to readily accessible, 
means of extinguishing fires, which shall be adequate and suitable having regard to 
the nature of the processes carried on and the quantity and nature of the substances 
used. 
 
 
 
 
Cleanliness. 
In every factory the following provisions relating to the cleanliness shall apply: 
(a) There shall be provided and maintained a sufficient number of suitable 
receptacles for the collection of refuse, rubbish and waste matter and all such 
refuse, rubbish and waste matter shall be removed daily from the working area. 
(b) The floor of every factory shall be cleaned at least once every week by washing 
or, if it is effective and suitable, by regular sweeping or other method. 
(c) All inside walls and partitions, and all ceilings or tops of rooms, and all walls, 
sides and tops of passages and staircases shall- 
 
(i) 
where they have a smooth impervious surface, be washed with hot water

===== PAGE 13 =====
13 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  13 
Drpd / of:  19 
and soap or cleaned by such other method as may be approved by the 
Inspector, at least once in every period of fifteen months; or 
 
(ii) 
where they are kept painted with oil paint or varnished, be repainted or 
revarnished at least once in every period of seven years, and be washed 
with hot water and soap or other suitable detergent, or cleaned by such 
other method as may be approved by the Inspector, at least once in every 
period of twelve months; or 
 
(iii) in other cases, be kept white-washed or colour-washed and the white-
washing or colour-washing shall be repeated at least once in every period of 
twelve months:  
 
 
Provided that the provisions of paragraph (c) (iii) of this regulation shall not 
apply to the classes, descriptions or parts of factories shown in the First 
Schedule to these regulations. 
(d) All sweeping and cleaning shall be done in such a manner as to avoid as far as 
possible contamination of the air with dust or other obnoxious substances and, 
where appropriate, vacuum cleaners shall be used. 
(e) Adequate drains capable of ensuring effective removal of waste water shall be 
provided and constantly maintained. Where it is considered essential by an 
Inspector the drains shall be equipped with hydraulic seals or other effective 
devices to prevent escape of effluvia and such seals or devices shall be 
constantly maintained. 
(f) 
Every workroom or workplace shall as far as practicable be so constructed and 
maintained as to prevent the entrance or harbouring of rodents, insects and 
vermin of any kind. 
(g) Infestation of rodents, insects, and vermin shall be eliminated by suitable 
measures, and control measures shall be taken to prevent re-infestation. 
(h) No person shall be allowed to use any workroom or workplace as living or 
sleeping quarters. 
 
 
 
 
Space for each person. 
(1) In every factory there shall be provided not less than four hundred cubic feet of 
space for each person employed therein, and in determining such space, all 
space more than fourteen feet above the level of the floor shall not be taken into 
account. 
(2) Every workroom shall not be less than ten feet in height measured from the floor

===== PAGE 14 =====
14 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  14 
Drpd / of:  19 
to the lowest point of the ceiling or where there is no ceiling, to the lowest point of 
any cross beam thereof: Provided that a workroom shall not include any room 
used solely for the purpose of housing machinery and in which no person is 
employed full time in attendance at such machinery and in which case, such 
height shall not be less than six feet and six inches. 
 
 
 
 
Ventilation. 
(1) Where the means of natural ventilation is not adequate further means of natural 
or mechanical ventilation or both shall be provided. 
(2) Pursuant to paragraph (c) (ii) of section 22 (1) of the Act, ventilation shall be 
considered to be adequate where the number of air changes every hour is- 
 
(a) not less than ten in the case of processes which generate little or no heat, 
smoke or fume; and 
 
(b) not less than twenty in the case of processes which generate heat, smoke 
or fume: 
 
 
Provided that where any fume generated is likely to cause bodily injury to 
any person employed, the number of air changes every hour shall not be 
less than thirty. 
(3) The total free area of any ventilation air inlets shall be at least fifty per cent 
greater than the total free area of the air outlets. Air inlets shall, so far as 
practicable, be located at floor level, and air outlets shall be located as high as 
practicable. 
 
 
 
 
Lighting. 
In respect of every factory the following provisions relating to the lighting shall apply: 
(a) No person shall be required or permitted to work in any factory building where the 
means of obtaining natural light is less than ten percent of the floor area thereof. 
(b) All windows and skylights shall be- 
 
(i) 
located and spaced so that daylight conditions are fairly uniform over the 
working area; and 
 
(ii) 
kept clean on both the inner and outer surfaces and free from obstruction:  
 
 
Provided that the provisions of this sub-paragraph shall not affect the white-
washing or shading of windows and skylights for the purpose of mitigating 
heat or glare. 
(c) In every part of every factory building the intensity of illumination shall not be less

===== PAGE 15 =====
15 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  15 
Drpd / of:  19 
than two-foot-candles measured in a horizontal plane at a height of three feet 
from any floor or working level and not less than five-foot candles at any point 
where work is actually being done. 
(d) The intensity of illumination measured at floor level in any factory where any 
person may pass shall not be less than one-half of one foot-candle. 
(e) Where is in the opinion of an Inspector, the general level of illumination is 
inadequate for any particular process he shall require it to be supplemented by 
local lighting, in accordance with the standards shown in the Second Schedule to 
these regulations. 
(f) 
(i) 
any general lighting source shall be mounted at a height sufficient to keep it 
well above the line of normal vision. 
 
(ii) 
Any local lighting source shall be mounted and arranged so as to confine 
the light to the immediate working area. 
(g) Adequate measures shall be taken to prevent the formation of shadows. 
(h) (i) 
In every factory where more than fifty persons are employed at any one time 
during hours of darkness an emergency lighting system shall be provided 
and maintained in all important stairways, passageways and exits from 
workplaces. 
 
(ii) 
Such emergency lighting system shall be capable of producing and 
maintaining for at least one hour a minimum intensity of one half a foot-
candle and shall have energy sources independent of the installations for 
the general lighting system. 
 
(iii) Provision shall be made for automatic lighting of the emergency. 
 
 
 
 
Seating facilities. 
(1) In every factory where persons employed have in the course of their 
employment, reasonable opportunities for sitting without detriment to their work, 
there shall be provided and maintained suitable and sufficient seating facilities for 
their use. 
(2) Where a substantial portion of any work can properly be done sitting- 
 
(a) there shall be provided and maintained for any person employed in that 
work a seat of a design, construction and dimensions suitable for him and 
the work, together with a foot-rest if such a foot-rest is necessary to support 
his feet in order to reduce fatigue; and 
 
(b) the arrangements shall be such that the seat is adequately and properly

===== PAGE 16 =====
16 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  16 
Drpd / of:  19 
supported while in use for the purpose for which it is provided. 
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (2) of this regulation the dimensions of seat which 
is adjustable shall be taken to be its dimensions as for the time being adjusted. 
 
 
 
 
Working clothes, personal protective clothing and appliance. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the Act relating to working clothes and personal protective 
clothing and appliances, the following provisions shall apply- 
(a) (i) 
Working clothes shall be of good fit and there shall be no loose flaps or 
strings, loose aprons, loose, torn, or ragged garments and neckties. Key 
chains or watch chains shall not be worn near moving parts of machinery. 
 
(ii) 
Every precaution shall be taken to safeguard hair of persons being exposed 
to the risk of being caught in moving parts of machinery and such 
precautions shall include the wearing of caps. 
 
(iii) Every person employed on any operation or process involving danger of 
explosion or fire shall not during the operation or process wear articles such 
as collars, eyeshades, cap visors and other articles of similar nature if such 
collars, eyeshades, cap visors or articles are made of inflammable 
materials. 
 
(iv) Every person exposed to inflammable, explosive or toxic dusts shall not 
wear clothing having pockets, cuffs or turn-ups that might collect such dusts. 
 
(v) 
In operations or processes where ordinary foot-wear is not suitable, persons 
employed on such operations or processes shall be provided with boots, 
heavy shoes or other footwear of suitable and adequate protection. 
 
(vi) Where any article of food or drink is manufactured, prepared or handled, an 
Inspector may require the provision and maintenance, in good and clean 
condition, of suitable overalls and caps for the use of persons employed in 
the process. 
(b) Safety helmets. 
 
(i) 
Every person exposed to falling or flying objects and blows on the head 
shall wear well fitting industrial safety helmets. 
 
(ii) 
In the case of any of the processes specified in the Third Schedule to these 
regulations, suitable goggles or effective screens shall be provided to 
protect the eyes of persons employed in, or in proximity to, the processes. 
(c) Ear-plugs and screens. 
 
(i) 
Persons working in intensive prolonged noise shall be provided with suitable

===== PAGE 17 =====
17 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  17 
Drpd / of:  19 
ear-plugs which shall be cleaned daily unless discarded after each use. 
 
(ii) 
In the case of any of the processes where ears of persons employed are 
exposed to sparks, molten metal particles or other foreign bodies suitable 
ear screens shall be provided. 
 
(iii) When not in use every ear protection device shall be kept in closed 
containers 
protecting 
them 
against 
mechanical 
damages 
or 
contamination by oil grease or other harmful substances. 
 
 
 
 
(d) Protection clothing. 
 
Every person exposed to corrosive or other harmful substances shall be provided 
with liquid proof protective suits, hoods, aprons, leggings, gloves and other 
protective wear, according to the nature of the substance or substances and the 
risks involved. 
(e) Gloves. 
 
(i) 
Every person employed in processes involving handling of sharp-edged, 
abrasive objects, corrosive harmful substances, hot metals or other toxic 
irritating or infectious substances shall be provided with suitable mittens, 
gloves or gauntlets. 
 
(ii) 
All torn gloves shall be replaced immediately. 
 
(iii) No gloves shall be worn by persons operating drills, punch presses or other 
machinery with which the hand or parts of the hand may be caught in 
moving parts. 
 
 
 
 
(f) 
Respiratory protective equipment. 
 
(i) 
Every person exposed to vapours, injurious gases, dusty, toxic or 
hazardous atmospheres or atmospheres deficient in oxygen shall be 
provided with suitable respiratory protective equipment, and in determining 
the suitability of such equipment consideration is to be given to: 
 
 
(a) the process and conditions creating the exposure; 
 
 
(b) the chemical and physical toxic or other hazards of the substance from 
which protection is required; 
 
 
(c) 
the nature of the duties to be performed by the persons required to 
wear the equipment; 
 
 
(d) the encumbrance or restriction of movement in the working area; and 
 
 
(e) the facilities available for maintenance, upkeep and supervision in the

===== PAGE 18 =====
18 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  18 
Drpd / of:  19 
use of such equipment. 
 
 
 
Provided that no mechanical filter respirators shall be used for 
protection of persons in atmospheres deficient in oxygen or against 
solvent vapours or injurious gases and also provided that supplied air 
respirators or hose masks shall be used for all operations in 
atmospheres in which the contact of dangerous gas or fumes is too 
high for the safe use of canister or cartridge respirators. 
 
(ii) 
Where compressed air is supplied for a respiratory protective device or 
mask, a pressure reducing valve shall be installed near the point where the 
respiratory protective device or mask hose is attached to the compressed 
air line, and as a further precaution against high pressure, in case the 
reducing valve fails to function, a relief valve shall be installed preset to 
release at a pressure slightly above the setting of the pressure reducing 
valve. 
 
(iii) Oxygen breathing apparatus shall be worn only by persons who have had 
sufficient training in the use of such equipment. 
 
 
(h) The design, construction, use and maintenance of every personal 
protection clothing, device, apparatus and other equipment shall 
conform to safety standards acceptable by the Chief Inspector. 
 
 
(i) 
No protective clothing or appliances prescribed under these 
regulations shall be removed from the factory except on the authority 
of the occupier for the purpose of cleaning or repair.

===== PAGE 19 =====
19 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  19 
Drpd / of:  19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What type of punishment shall be borne to a employee if not comply to the duties of 
employee as OSHA Act 1994?  
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
 
2. How many employees should employer form a safety and health committee?.  
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
3. Where any person is required to work at a place from which he will be liable to fall a 
distance of more than ten feet, means shall be provided to ensure his safety and 
such means shall where practicable include the use of safety belts or ropes.? 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
....................................................................................................................................

===== PAGE 20 =====
20 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-2:2015-M04/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  20 
Drpd / of:  19 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1.Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994, (2010) Malaysia, Penerbitan Akta (M), 
 
ISBN-978-967-576-9221. 
2. Chessebro T.; O’Connor L.; Rios F., (2009), Communicating in the Workplace. 
 
Prentice Hall. ISBN-13 978-0136136910. 
3. Vergo P., (1974). Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974, (Public General Acts – 
 
Elizabeth II), TSO. ISBN-13 978-0105437741 
4. Health and Safety Executive, (1998), Workplace Health, Safety and Welfare: 
 
Workplace (Health, Safety and Welfare) Regulations 1992- Approved Code of 
 
Practice and Guidance (Health and Safety Commission). HSE Books. ISBN-13 978-
 
0717604135.