 
1 
 
 
 
 
 KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE AND 
NAME 
 
Z-009-1: 2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE  
CA03 RELATIONSHIP  MANAGEMENT  CAPABILITY 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / ABILITY 
NO. AND STATEMENT 
03.01 PROMOTE GOOD NETWORKING 
03.02 ENHANCE INTERPERSONAL CONFLICT 
RESOLUTION 
03.03 PROMOTE EMPATHY 
03.04 PROVIDE MOTIVATION 
03.05 DEMONSTRATE INITIATIVE BEHAVIOUR 
03.06 ADHERE TO CONTINUOUS EFFECTIVE LEARNING 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of               :  19 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  PROMOTE GOOD NETWORKING 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe the promotion of good networking 
skills within organization and its related usage . The person who is competent in this 
CA shall be able to effectively utilize management relationship capabilities. 
 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
  KERTAS PENERANGAN  
  (INFORMATION SHEET) 


----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   2 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
2 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
1. Business Networking 
1.1  Business networking is an effective low -cost marketing  method for 
developing sales opportunities and contacts, based on referrals and 
introductions; either face to face at meetings and gatherings, or by other 
contact methods such as phone, email, and increasingly social and business 
networking websites. 
1.2  The term 'networking' could be misinterpreted and get the wrong 
impression about with that of computer networking or networks, which is totally 
different terminology, relating to connection and accessibility of multiple 
computer systems. 
1.3  A business ne twork of contacts is both a route to market for you, and a 
marketing method. Business networking offers a way to reach decision -makers 
which might otherwise be very difficult to engage with using conventional 
advertising methods. 
1.4  In addition, business  networking brings with it the added advantage of 
recommendation and personal introduction, which are always very helpful for 
developing business opportunities. 
1.5  A good network is produced, and networking succeeds by the application 
of hard work.  A network without the hard work produces nothing worthwhile. 
2. Promote Good Networking 
2.1   The principles and techniques of business networking are mostly common 
sense. Many of the behavioral principles apply also to business and 
relationships generally, and specifically to selling, managing, coaching, 
facilitating, etc. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   3 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
3 
 
3. Networking Methodology. 
3.1   When at a networking function or social event, the most commonly subject 
in question is, “ are people naturally drawn to you or do you unknowingly push 
them away?” 
3.2  There are a couple of techniques applicable in pursuing networking 
procedures. 
i) Ready to Engage 
Approachability means ‘ to come nearer to ’.  But there is no such 
terminology so called the  approaches or approached.  So the first 
idea to remember is that approachability is a two way street. It  is 
both you stepping  onto someone else’s front porch and  you 
invite someone to step onto your front porch. 
Although this article will address both sides of the street, here  is an 
example of the former. When you arrive at a meeting, event, party 
or anywhere in which many conversations will take place, prepare 
yourself. Be “ready to engage” with conversation  topics, questions 
and stories at the back of your mind ready to go as soon as you 
meet someone. This will help you avoid those awkward ‘How is the 
weather’ type of discussions. 
ii) Common Point of Interest (CPI) 
It is an essential element to every conversation and interaction. 
Your duty, as you meet new people, or even as you talk  to your 
acquaintances, is to discover the CPI as soon as possible. It 
connects people to you. It allows them to feel more comfortable 
talking to you. And it increases your  approachability as  much as 
people will be magnetized to you due to the commonality you 
share. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   4 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
4 
 
A great tip is to ask the right type of questions. You may ask 
questions that begin with “What  is your favorite…” “Tell me the 
best…” or “When was the last time… ” The CPI is almost 
guaranteed to be discovered. 
iii) Flavoured Answers 
In the event that one of those fruitless questions like “How  is it 
going?” “What is up?” or “How are you?” comes up , do not befallen 
into the trap, by just simply answer “Everything is fine”.  The word 
fine is inexpressible and could not be elaborated well. A great 
technique is to offer a flavored answer to a fruitless question . 
Instead of  using the word “fine,” try word “Amazing!” or phrase 
“Everything is beautiful.” Your conversation p artner will instantly 
change his/her appearance as he/she smiles and, most of the time, 
inquire further to find out what made you say that answer.  It is 
beyond expectation. As such, that will offer a true response to 
magnify the way you feel is a perfect w ay to share yourself with 
others. 
iv) Do Not Cross Your Arms 
Even if it is cold, even if you are bored, even if you are tired and do 
not want to be there , never cross your arms. It  is subconscious 
non-verbal indication that it hinders their approachability, though it 
is a practice of many people. 
As a result, people w ill not bother about you. They may have the 
impression that you are defensive, nervous, judgmental, close 
minded or skeptical. Generally, people would not want to approach 
someone of that character.  Some saying, body language speaks 
louder than words. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   5 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
5 
 
v) Do Not Assume 
Whenever you assume there is tendency to make mistakes.  How 
often do people utter the following sentences? 
 You must be new here. 
 How is work going? 
 Do you remember me? 
Bear in mind,  just because you meet someone you have not seen 
before, does not mean he/she is new. Or just because you  are at a 
networking meeting, does not mean everyone in attendance has a 
job. And for sure, not everyone you remember, remembers you. 
Approachability is a function of comfort, so it  is important to 
sidestep these moments of embarrassment with ‘success 
sentences’. These are phrases that allow the other person to offer 
you the information need ed. Examples include, “I am not s ure we 
have met before”, “What are you working on this week?” and “I  am 
Mamat, we met last month at the Club meeting.” 
vi) Options for Communication 
Your friends, colleagues, customers and coworkers will choose to 
communicate with you in different ways. Some will choose face to 
face, some will email or call, while others will do a little of 
everything. The bottom line is , make all of them available. On your 
business cards, email signatures, websites or marketing materials, 
let people know that they can get in touch with you in whatever 
manner they choose. You might prefer email , b ut what matters 
most is the comfort of the other person s and their ability to 
communicate effectively. 
A good idea is to give people as many options to  contact you as 
possible. There i s nothing more annoying to a person than when 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   6 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
6 
 
he/she discovers that he/ she cannot get a hold of you except via 
emails. 
vii)       Email Signature 
Whatever applications you use for email find out how to customize 
your signature. There i s nothing more frustrating  than receiving an 
email from someone who wants to talk further, get together or have 
you send them something  that does  not have any personal 
information in the email.  So at the end of every email you send, 
always cross reference the following information: 
a) Name 
b) Title 
c) Company / Organization 
d) Mailing address 
e) At least two phone numbers 
f) Fax number 
g) Email address 
h) Website 
i) A sentence or two about yourself, your company or your job 
Think of it this way: have you ever received a handwritten letter 
from someone that ha d no return address stamped on the 
envelope? 
viii) Always Have Business Cards 
Have you ever told a story about a successful, unexpected 
business encounter that ended with the phrase, “Thank God I had 
one of my business cards with me that day!” If so, that is great.  
You are practicing approachability by being ‘easy to reach ’.  If not, 
you have missed out a valuable relationship  and opportunit y.  It 
happens, where people forget cards, or get exhausted of the cards 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   7 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
7 
 
or change jobs and the card is yet to be available . The bottom line 
is; there is a time and place for networking, any time and any place. 
Just be ready all the time, b ecause you never know whom you 
might meet. 
ix)       No Fear 
They will not say hello and will not show any interest in you. This is 
the number one reason why people do  not start conversations. 
However, practice will make this fear fade away. The more often 
you start conversations, the better you will become at it. So, be the 
first to introduce yourself or say hello. When you ta ke an  active 
move instead of a  passive role, your skills will develop and there 
will be less of chance s being rejected . Also understand the gains 
vs. losses. For example, what  is there to lose from a rejection by 
someone you do not even know him/her. 
x) Wear Your Nametag 
There are so many complaints about wearing nametag, and all of 
them can be validated. Case in point: 
a)    Nametag look silly    Yes, it does. But remember, everyone 
     else is wearing them  
     too 
b)    Nametags ruin my    Not so if you wear it on the edge of your 
    clothes    lapel or use cloth-safe connectors like 
     lanyards and plastic clips. 
c)   I already know    No you do not. You may think you do,    
   everybody     but new people come in and out of     
                                              businesses and organizations all the  
                                              time. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   8 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
8 
 
 
d)   But everyone already  No they do not. Even the best networkers 
   knows me  know there is always someone new to     
   meet. 
Your nametag is your best friend for several reasons. 
a) A person’s name is the single context of human memory most 
forgotten. And people are less likely to approach you if they do  
not know or forgot your name. 
b) It is free advertising for you and your company. 
c) Nametags encourage people to be friendly and more 
approachable. 
4. Networking Strategy Development 
4.1  Consider that all sorts of professional people outside of the business 
community can also be very helpful networking contacts, say, scientists, 
lecturers, educators, councilors, etc. When developing your networking plans, 
think beyond the people you'd typically see at other business networking 
events. Some of the most important connections are not business people, and 
consequently you need to be creative in reaching them. The examples of 
networking situations or methods below may provide some help. 
4.2   The following tips apply broadly to any sort of business networking, be it 
face to face, organized events, business social networking websites, etc. The 
principles are: 
i) Elevator Speech 
It is so called as if you were to meet a potentially important contact 
for the first time in an elevator at a conference and he/she asks you: 
"What do you do?" You have no more than 20 seconds, perhaps just 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   9 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
9 
 
10-15 seconds, between floors to explain and to m ake such an 
impressive impact that the person will ask for your contact details. 
Use these principles also in text -based descriptions for the web and 
printed materials, etc.  If you talk or write too much, the listeners or 
readers will become bored, or thi nk you are rude or too self 
centered. Describe yourself concisely and impressively.  You will 
demonstrate consideration and expertise by conveying your most 
relevant points in as short a time as possible. 
Here are the main points for creating your elevator speech: 
a.    Your Name My name is Mr So and So.  Look at the 
other person in the eye with smile. 
Shoulders back. Speak with confidence.  
Sincerity and passion are crucial in 
making a strong early impression. 
b. Your Business Name “I work for Rabbit Farm Sendir ian 
Berhad”. In loud clear proud again.  Never 
ask "Have you heard of us..?" or wait for 
recognition. 
c. Base and Covering “My company based in Malaysia and my 
 Area operation covers the whole East Coast 
region of the state”. 
d. Your Specialisation Be different and special and better off 
from your competitors in some way or the 
other. Be meaningful for the event or 
situation or group, and as far as you can 
guess, be meaningful for the contact. 
Express what you offer in terms of 
positive outcomes for those you help or 
supply, rather than focusing on technical 
details from your own viewpoint. Load 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   10 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
10 
 
your statements here with special benefits 
or qualities. Be positive, proud and 
ambitious in your thinking and expression 
of what you do. Include in this 
statement what your aims are , to show 
you have ambition and that you know 
what you are seeking from network 
contacts. 
Depending on the situation, aim to complete your explanation in less 
than 20 seconds.  Remember, less is more: lots of powerful points in 
very few words make a much bigger impact than a lengthy 
statement. 
It is a sign of a good mind if you can convey a lot of relevant 
impressive information in a very short time.   Conversely, a long 
rambling statement shows a lack of preparation, professionalism and 
experience. 
While talking look at the other person in the eyes, and be aware of 
his/her body language  to gauge for interest and reaction to you 
personally, in order to help your assessment of the other person's 
character and mood.  And this will help you in  ending your 
conversation.  Many ways you may ask him/her, for example; any 
interest in him/her out of your brief clarification. 
Many highly competent people have a habit of interrupting a nd 
cutting short discussions when they see an opportunity.  This means 
you may not always finish your elevator speech, in which case allow 
the discussion to progress, rather than try to complete what you 
planned to say.  Be prepared at any time to respond effectively to an 
interruption. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   11 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
11 
 
ii)    Be Different 
Differentiate yourself.  Aim high and be the best at something.  If 
there is no special difference between you and other providers, then 
people have no reason what so ever to revert to you. If there is none, 
find a way to create one.  Sometimes this is merely a matter of 
redefining or placing different emphasis on what you already are. 
iii)      Help Others 
You must give in order to receive. Be helpful to others and you will be 
helped in return.  Networks of people are highly complex. In general it 
is not possible to see exactly how and why they are working for you, 
so you must trust that goodness is rewarded, even if the process is 
hidden and the effect takes a while. Just simply use the principle of 
'what goes around comes around'.  You should think of this as karma 
in business. 
A possible explanation of how this k arma or coincidence produces 
positive outcomes is found in the rule of 'cause and effect', or the 
scientific law that  states 'every action has an equal reaction'.   Good 
deeds and helpfulness tend to produce positive effects. They are 
usually remembered and often repaid. 
Helping others extends far beyond your personal specialism or line of 
work. Networking is about working within a system or group of people 
to enabling relevant high quality introductions and cooperation, which 
eventually produce great results for the participants. 
iv) Personal Integrity 
Integrity, trust and reputation are vital for networking.   Always keep 
your integrity. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   12 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
12 
 
Sometimes a situation arises which tempts us to do the wrong thing, 
causing harm or upset that could have been avoided.  Making suc h a 
mistake can damage personal integrity.  Mistakes happen. If you do 
make a mistake or wrong decision, whether it significantly undermines 
your integrity or not, always admit it and apologize.  Failing to 
apologize for wrong -doing often damages a person' s integrity and 
reputation far more than the original misjudgment itself. 
Simple mistakes will lead to some integrity lost. Repeating it again 
and again will cause all integrity gone.  People of low integrity sooner 
or later find that the only friends they  have are those people of similar 
character as he is, low integrity. 
Significantly, integrity is vital for trust to develop. Trust is simply not 
possible without integrity.   Building trust is essential for growing a 
strong network.  Lack of trust prevents successful networking. Certain 
connections are absolutely impossible to develop until a very high 
level of trust is established. 
Empathy and effective listening  greatly assist the proce ss of building  
trust. These qualities require you to be genuinely interested in others; 
to listen properly, and to reflect back meaningfully and helpfully. 
There are people who always keep their promises and commitments. 
They never make a commitment which they cannot fulfill it.  Reliability 
and dependability are highly valued qualities in relationships, 
especially when involving referrals and recommendations, because 
someone's reputation will be at stake.  That does not mean you are 
always available to everyone. It just simply when you say something 
you mean it and you will do it. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   13 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
13 
 
v) Relevant Targets 
Identify the g roups and contacts which are relevant to your aims and 
capabilities.  Relevance can be classified in different scopes and 
areas of interest, for example: 
a) Geography 
b) Size 
c) Sector 
d) Social grouping (e.g., ethnic, gender, age, seniority, etc) 
e) Political or religious grouping 
f) Trade or society grouping 
g) Profession. academic or technical grouping 
h) Specifically organized networking / referrals groups 
i) Other common interes t (e.g., social enterprise, environmental, 
Fair Trade, etc) 
The more relevant your targeting of groups and contacts, the more 
useful your meetings and referrals will be. 
Within most networks people tend to have a few close and trusted 
connections. Choose your most trusted and closest associates, very 
carefully.  Reputations are built according to your selected contacts, in 
addition to how you yourself behave.   So focus your efforts on groups 
and associates of integrity, as well as relevance. 
vi) Plans and Aims 
It is important to know exactly what you want, because you were to be 
asked you should know the exact answer for it.  An activity which has 
no clear planned outcomes is liable to be pulled in all sorts of discarded 
subjects. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   14 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
14 
 
If you are yet to know what to  plan, then there is necessity to do some 
research.  Your research may lead you to the followings; 
a) When evaluating and choosing a potential networking group , 
especially if dealing with big community, try to obtain some tactics 
that commonly used by successful members. Acquire some leading 
indicators from relevant sectors . This will help you assess the 
group's relevance to your needs and strengths. 
b) You may save much of wasted time by doing some research before 
committing valuable time to deeper involvement. 
c) A plan is v ital because in managing a networking can be a very 
time-consuming activity. 
d) Have some measurable targets and monitor its results closely. 
Here is a simple example for planning and monitoring networking, 
which extends the elevator speech  template above. Just use the 
headings as a guide if you prefer to work more intuitively, or if you favor 
certain types of planning method. 
Particulars Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 
Target / Aim       
Ideal Connections (People)       
Group Name and Type       
Group Profile / Sector / Interests (Relevancy)       
Tactical Group Notes / Tips (what works well)       

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   15 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
15 
 
 
Figure 1: Sample Networking Planner 
Note 
a. Alter the box sizes to suit your needs. 
b. The framework can be extended to manage specific follow-ups etc. 
c. Decide on your groups or limitations.  For a start you may want to pick one 
business networking website, and one face-to-face networking group or event, 
and see how it goes before increasing the activity. 
d. To sustain your focus and efforts, it would be best to limit networking works in 
a more concentrated manner. If you go on too many groups and networks at 
the same time you will be spread too thinly, and find it difficult to make an 
impact in any of them. 
vii) Follow Up 
Elevator Speech (For each group)       
What can be done for these people       
What can be achieved from these people       
Diary Dates / Scheduled Tasks       
Targets / Expectations       
Actual       
Time Spent       
Compare with other marketing activities       

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   16 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
16 
 
Keep track and do follow up meetings and referrals make things 
happen.  There are two main reasons for the importance of following 
up. 
a. Networking only produces good results when it is followed up. 
b. Following up with contacts builds trust, reputation, and 
relationships. 
Networkers who meet people and never follow up are wasting their 
time.  Follow up is a matter of relevance and commitment . If a contact 
or referral is not relevant  just ignore it.  If there is relevance, follow it 
up, in whatever way is appropriate for the situation. 
If there is lack of relevance and you may think it is a waste  of time to 
proceed with meetings and follow up with referrals then re -examine 
your group targeting strategy. You might be chasing the wrong groups 
and connections, and may be you need to redefine the issues. 
viii) Be Positive 
Be a positive influence on everyone  and everything.   Use positive 
language. Always smile. See the superior part in people.  Keep your 
emotional criticisms of others and personal hang -ups to yourself. 
Speak ill of no -one. Remain objective. Be passionate and 
enthusiastic, but not emotional or subjective.  Be known as a really 
positive person. It rubs off on others and people will  warm to you for 
being so. 
Keep tolerance, patience, calmness and serene, especially when 
others become agitated. 
Seek feedback and criticism about yourself and your ideas from 
others. It is the most valuable market research you can obtain , and it 
is totally free of charge. 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   17 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
17 
 
Followers gather around people who remain positive and calm under 
pressure, and who resist the herding tendencies of weaker souls. 
At many networking events and situations you will have the 
opportunity to give a  presentation to the  assembled group. This is a 
wonderful chance for you to demonstrate your expertise in your 
specialized area, your positive confident character, and also to pass 
on some useful information.  During presentations in these 
circumstances, avoid giving a hard -selling pitch, unless you are sure 
that such a style is appropriate. Usually it is not. Aim to inform and 
educate audience rather than to sell. In many networking situations a 
strong selling present ation is regarded as insulting by those present. 
This is especially so if you are a guest of a group that you would not 
normally meet regularly.   You will sell yourself best by giving helpful 
information in a professional and entertaining credible manner. 
 
Be confident, positive and enthusiastic, but do not let this develop into 
pressure on the audience, or a sense of your trying too hard. 
Try to find and present within your specialization the most helpful 
information for the group concerned. Your aim at th e end of the 
presentation is for the audience to have learnt something useful about 
your area as it applies to them, and to have been impressed with your 
professionalism and command of your subject. 
ix) Sustained Focused Effort 
Be focused and ever ready at all time.  All forms of marketing benefit 
from strongly focused activity. This is necessary for reasons; 
a. To create awareness, and 
b. To build relationships 
Much effort will produce much greater results when applied 
consistently in a strongly focused way. The same amount of effort 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   18 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
18 
 
spread over a wider activities, especially if spread over time too.  In 
networking, where occasional participation rarely penetrates the usual 
inner core of members, but regular enthusiastic involvement inevitably 
gains attention. 
Opportunities should also  be continuously open to unplanned 
networking, which can arise at any time.  Paths can cross in the most 
unexpected places. You will find and develop connections in these 
unplanned situations if you: 
 Make eye-contact with people and smile 
 Take the initiative 
 Start conversations 
 Generally adopt an open friendly approach to everyone 
 And always carry a pen and some business cards 
Thereafter in both cases, the planned and unplanned , much depend  
on what you offer to your associates.  Networking is full of people with 
many connections but little of value to offer . Hence, they achieve poor 
results. Good results come instead from being friendly and open, 
taking the initiative, working hard at sustaining genuinely helpful 
contributions wherever you meet people. 
In face -to-face networking there is often a 'clique culture', in which 
members are defensive or sometimes seemingly arrogant. This often 
indicates a requirement to become known and trusted, which takes 
time and effort .  N etworking, like any other activit ies, requires 
concentrated effort to produce good results.  If you treat networking 
like an occasional or purely social activity it will not produce superior 
results. 
Networking requires sustained effort to make things happen.   
Sustained focused effort means working hard to become a regular 

----PAGE BREAK----

NO. KOD / CODE NO Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(1/3) Mukasurat/Page :   19 
  Drpd / of             :   19 
 
19 
 
active helpful presence in the group.   Build relationships first, your 
reputation next, and referrals and introductions will follow. 
 
Question 
 
1. What is business networking?. 
2. What is the most common subject item posed at networking function? 
3. Why does approachability so called a two way street? 
4. What do you understand by Common Point of Interest (CPI)? 
 
 
 
References 
 
1. http://www.businessballs.com/business-networking.htm 
2. www.hellomynameisscott.com. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 