 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE 
AND NAME 
 Z-009-4: 2015  CORE ABILITIES 
 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
 
4 (FOUR) 
NO.  DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
CA01  ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR  
           AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN  /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
01.01 ADHERE TO CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF THE 
ORGANIZATION 
01.02 ENHANCE SUCCESSFUL TEAMWORK.  
01.03 DEMONSTRATE WORK DELEGATION CAPABILITY. 
01.04 ENSURE SYSTEMATIC DOCUMENTATION. 
01.05 ENCOURAGE ORGANIZATION EVENT 
COORDINATION.  
01.06 COMPLY WITH TRAINING REQUIREMENT 
PROCEDURES. 
01.07 RECOGNIZE STAFF VERTICAL MOBILITY 
POTENTIAL. 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of                 :  14 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE :  ORGANIZATION FRAMEWORK  
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE : 
 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the organisational behaviour awareness 
behavior within adhere to conceptual framework of the organization  in the practice. The 
person who is competent in this CA shall be able to handle all organisational b ehaviour 
awareness in accordance with required standards and recommended practices.     
 
  
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  15 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
 
1. Definition 
A business organization is one or more businesses controlled in common by a 
person or group of people. An organization may have one or more businesses. A business 
may not have more than one organization. Even in the case of franchises, the franchisor is 
a different business model than the franchisee, even though they exist symbiotically in the 
same value system. The contractual relationships that bind them differ significantly from 
the employer-employee relationship that exists within the organization. Business and 
organization are inseparable. They are simply two aspects of the one thing. For example, 
note the impact of culture (organizational DNA) on business success or failure. Therefore, 
business and organization are melded together into business organization as the subject 
of strategy and strategic management. 
 
1.1 Why business organizations exist 
 
i)  Business organizations form to minimize transaction costs over the 
transactions costs of a network of freelance contractors. The firm 
eliminates at least two costs it would have if it instead used the price 
mechanism to ""organize"" production: (1) discove ring what relevant 
prices are, and (2) the costs of negotiating and concluding a separate 
contract for each exchange transaction. This includes the cost of 
incomplete contracts and ""hold-up"" problem of a unique asset owner 
threatening to back-out unless they get a better deal.  
ii) Organizations are a vehicle for collective learning, providing a 
collective storehouse of wisdom, capabilities, and business model 
designs. An organization exists for a purpose. Hopefully for a moral 
purpose, or ideal, that is never fully achieved. The organization's 
pursuit of its purpose requires a structure for cooperation to endure for 
long periods of time, beyond the people's tenure in the organization. 
Enduring beyond the tenure of individuals enables more effective 
pursuit of purpose, with more complex business models, than could be 
attained if all people were freelance contractors.  
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  15 
1.2 Objective of business organizations  
If organization does not have endurance as a guid ing principle, the organization  
members will not be inspired to invest themselves in perpetuating it. Members 
commit to organizations to the degree organizations commit to them. An 
organization's long-term commitment releases member's energy and creativity with 
the inferred promise of long-term engagement and rewards. 
 
1.3 Nature of business organizations  
Recognizing that organizations are not machines, but complex self-organizing 
systems, the principles and methods for effective management, leadership, and 
change do not fit the command and control model that has been so prevalent in 
much of management training and practice. See self-organization.  
 
1.4 Business organization design 
The flip-side of strategy is business design. The strategy is the actions and their 
objectives while the business organization design reflects the intended result of 
those actions. Business design serves both as a stimulus to strategy development, 
strategy validation, and the design itself, as a documentation of the hypotheses of 
the strategy. 
 
Given that competitive advantage is temporal, business organizations must be 
continually redesigned and transformed in order sustain advantage. In order to 
develop an effective design process, the essential attributes of the business 
organization must be identified. From systems science we find that a business 
organization best fits what is described as a social system. The construct of a social 
system provides the basis for legitimate inquiry of a business organization. 
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  15 
2. Types of Business Organizations 
Once you’ve identified the nature and type of operation the business runs, the next thing 
you need to know is what type of organization the business was formed. 
Manufacturing, merchandising and service businesses are commonly organized and 
formed as either of the following: 
 
2.1 Proprietorship 
It’s a type of business organization that is owned by a single individual. The 
individual or person who owns this type of business is referred to as Proprietor. 
It is the most common and popular type of business organization because it is 
easier and cheaper to organize. However, the primary disadvantage of 
proprietorship is that the business resources are limited to the single owner’s 
resources. Also, the owner assumes all the risk, liability and decision making of the 
business. Small businesses like repair shops, laundries, restaurants, and 
professional services are organized as proprietorship. 
 
2.2 Partnership 
As a business grows bigger, it needs more financial, people and managerial 
resources. Two or more individuals may join together and form a business called 
partnership. The group of individuals who own the partnership business is referred 
to as Partners. Partnership is a type of business organization that is owned by two 
or more individuals. It is a little harder and more expensive to organize than the 
proprietorship. The benefit, however, is that the risk, liability and management is 
shared by group of individuals, depending on the percentage of ownership agreed 
upon. 
There are many small and medium-size businesses such as repair shops, 
laundries, and professional firms that are organized as partnership. The difference 
it has from proprietorship is that it is owned by more than one individual and the 
requirements of organizing a partnership is more tedious than a proprietorship. 
 
3.3 Corporation 
It’s a type of business organization that is owned by shareholders and it is 
structured as a separate legal entity under the operation of law. The ownership of a 
corporation is divided into shares of stock. A corporation issues the stock to 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  15 
individuals or other businesses, who then become owners or stockholders, of the 
corporation. 
The benefit of the corporation is that the risk and liability is not shouldered by the 
owners called as stockholders. And the management or decision making is shared 
by the board of directors. Also, it is easier to increase resources of the business by 
means of issuing stock. Large size businesses usually form a corporation because 
of its complexity and high need of resources. 
  
 
2. Company Size and Organizational Structure 
Organizational design can be defined narrowly as the strategic process of shaping the 
organization's structure and roles to create or optimize competitive capabilities in a given 
market. This definition underscores why it is important for companies to identify the factors 
of the organization that determine its ideal structure—most specifically the size, scope, 
and operational initiatives of the company. 
 
Company size plays a particularly important role in determining an organization's ideal 
structure: the larger the company, the greater the need for increased complexity and 
divisions to achieve synergy. The organizational structure should be designed in ways that 
specifically optimize the effort and input compared to output. Larger companies with a 
wider range of operational initiatives require careful structural considerations to achieve 
this optimization. 
 
2.1 Size of the Organization and Information Requirements 
 
i) Small Organizations 
Small organizations usually have simple management structure. The 
need invariably grows from the limited  scope and operations of 
management. Since tasks to be handled are usually limited and 
manageable, hence need for introducing more levels is not required. 
Since operations can be managed at the top level by one or  two 
members of the senior management, officers from the lower level of 
management are not usually  involved in decision making. Hence the 
final decisions are centrally taken. 
 
Examples of Information requirements of Small Organizations 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  15 
- Day to day transactions 
- Daily Sale 
-  Cash management 
-  Receivables and Payables 
ii)  Medium Sized Organizations 
Medium Sized organizations are normally a family ownership run by 
brothers, father-son. There are many organizations existing these 
days which are being run by the family members. The prime concern 
may be the trust already fostered among the blood relations but this 
might give rise to informal relationship among them. Since all critical 
managerial positions are usually controlled by the family members, 
information is structured only to the extent of external reporting. The 
level of reporting that could meet the information needs of the clients 
is best suited for such an organization. Medium sized organizations 
are run under direct supervision of the family members which rarely 
extends to segregation of duties and delegation of authority. 
· 
- Information Requirements of Medium Sized Organizations 
As size of the organization increases, the importance of 
planning for information also increases. The  planning on long -
term basis also helps in monitoring of information against 
planning 
iii) Large Organizations 
Usually such organizations are characterized by large scale of 
operations. Various criteria can be used for this purpose. 
· Number of employees 
· Amount of turnover 
· Number of branches 
· Profit size 
· Value of assets 
· Number of businesses the organization is working in 
With such large size of organizations, management structure needs to 
be multi- tiered for efficient and  strong control. This leads to 
formulation of many departments, management levels, designations,  
promotional opportunities and salary increments. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  15 
Example 
- Public companies 
- Information Requirements  of Large Organizations 
 
3. Mission and Vision Statements 
A Mission Statement defines the company's business, its objectives and its approach to 
reach those objectives. A Vision Statement describes the desired future position of the 
company. Elements of Mission and Vision Statements are often combined to provide a 
statement of the company's purposes, goals and values. However, sometimes the two 
terms are used interchangeably. 
 
Usage and satisfaction among survey respondents 
 
 
 
3.1 How Mission and Vision Statements work: 
A Mission Statement defines the company's business, its objectives and its 
approach to reach those objectives. A Vision Statement describes the desired 
future position of the company. Elements of Mission and Vision Statements are 
often combined to provide a statement of the company's purposes, goals and 
values. However, sometimes the two terms are used interchangeably. 
  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  15 
3.2 Companies use mission and vision statements to: 
Typically, senior managers will write the company's overall Mission and Vision 
Statements. Other managers at different levels may write statements for their 
particular divisions or business units. The development process requires managers 
to: 
 Clearly identify the corporate culture, values, strategy and view of the future 
by interviewing employees, suppliers and customers 
 Address the commitment the firm has to its key stakeholders, including 
customers, employees, shareholders and communities 
 Ensure that the objectives are measurable, the approach is actionable, and 
the vision is achievable 
 Communicate the message in clear, simple and precise language 
 Develop buy-in and support throughout the organization 
 
Mission and Vision Statements are commonly used to: 
Internally 
 Guide management's thinking on strategic issues, especially during times of 
significant change 
 Help define performance standards 
 Inspire employees to work more productively by providing focus and 
common goals 
 Guide employee decision making 
 Help establish a framework for ethical behavior 
Externally 
 Enlist external support 
 Create closer linkages and better communication with customers, suppliers 
and alliance partners 
 Serve as a public relations tool 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of         :  15 
4. Strategy execution as a process.   
The most notable book to date on strategy execution is Execution:  The Discipline of 
Getting Things Done,  by Larry Bossidy and Ram Charan. Bossidy, a retired CEO, and 
Charan, a renowned management consultant, make the case for execution as a discipline 
or “systematic way of exposing reality and acting on it.”  They explain that “the heart of 
execution lies in three core processes": 
- People  
- Strategy 
-  Operations 
 
4.1  Strategy execution as a system.   
The information presented in Execution is certainly useful, but the authors don’t 
fully explain how an organization can implement their three core processes to 
achieve strategy success.  There have been significant advancements in this 
area since Execution was published in 2002.  Management system  which 
houses six sequential stages intended to help organizations capture what they 
call an “execution premium”—a measurable increase in value derived from 
successful strategy execution. They outline six stages in this system: 
- Develop the strategy 
- Plan the strategy 
- Align the organization 
- Plan operations 
- Monitor and learn 
- Test and adapt 
 
4.2 Strategy execution as a step-by-step process.   
Both of the models outlined above are important and anyone serious about the 
practice of strategy execution should be familiar with them,  but they suffer from 
what might be called the “Goldilocks Problem.”  The process view doesn’t 
contain enough detail to help managers construct the three processes within an 
organization.  Conversely, the systems view contains so many sub steps that it 
can be overwhelming to managers. 
So, how can we find a solution that is “just right"?  While there is no easy 
answer, the best of both approaches can be synthesized into 10 steps outlined 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  10 
Drpd / of         :  15 
below.  These steps provide both high level direction as well as the detail 
necessary to capture the lion’s share of strategy execution success. 
 
Step 1:  Visualize the strategy.  One of the most pressing challenges 
in all of strategy is simply understanding what a strategy is.  An 
effective way to improve this understanding is to visualize the strategy 
via an illustration that shows both the important elements of the 
strategy and how each relates to one other.   
 
Step 2:  Measure the strategy.  Key elements of the visualized 
strategy should be assigned an easily understood performance 
measure.  The full set of strategic performance measures can be 
organized into a dashboard, a Balanced Scorecard, or some other 
framework so the reader can determine that progress is being made 
toward completion of the strategy. 
 
Step 3:  Report progress.  In the same way that a budget is reviewed 
monthly to ensure financial commitments are being kept, the strategy 
should be reviewed regularly, but with more of an eye toward 
determining if the strategy is producing results, versus controlling 
performance. 
 
Step 4:  Make decisions.  Strategy execution is much like sailing a 
boat toward a planned destination.  A defined course and a full 
complement of navigational charts will never eliminate the need to 
remain vigilant, to assess the environment, and to make corrections 
as conditions change.  As part of the regular reporting process 
leaders must make ongoing strategic decisions to keep the strategy 
current and on course. 
 
Step 5:  Identify strategy projects.  Organizations may have scores, if 
not hundreds, of projects ongoing at any point,  but they rarely have a 
firm grasp on the type and range of these projects.  The first step in 
improving project-oriented strategy execution is to capture and 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  11 
Drpd / of         :  15 
organize all projects—strategy projects in particular—that are 
underway in throughout an organization.   

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
12 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  12 
Drpd / of         :  15 
Step 6:  Align strategy projects.  Once projects are captured they must 
then be aligned to the strategies or goals for the organization.  This 
step entails comparing each project, either proposed or ongoing, to 
the strategic goals to determine if alignment exists.  Only those 
projects that directly impact the strategy should be resourced and 
continued. 
   
Step 7:  Manage projects.  Organizations must develop a capability in 
project management if they are to execute strategy effectively.  In 
some settings, projects receive very little management.  In others, 
projects persist well beyond their scheduled completion.  The full 
complement of projects in any organization should be coordinated 
and controlled by a central project office or officer with the 
responsibility for monitoring both progress and performance. 
 
Step 8:  Communicate strategy.  It is difficult to execute strategy when 
the strategy itself isn’t well understood, or performance relative to it is 
not communicated.  Leaders must communicate their visualized 
strategy to the workforce in a way that will help them understand not 
only what needs to be done, but why. 
 
Step 9:  Align individual roles.  Employees want to know they are 
making a meaningful contribution to their organization’s success.  It’s 
up to senior leaders to ensure that employees at all levels can 
articulate and evaluate their personal roles toward achievement of 
specific strategic goals.  This is perhaps one of the most critical 
aspects of the execution process. 
 
Step 10:  Reward performance.  In strategy execution, as in any other 
area of management, what gets measured gets done.  Taking this 
one step further, what get measured and rewarded gets done 
faster.  After explaining the strategy and aligning the workforce to it, 
senior managers institute the incentives that drive behaviors 
consistent with the strategy.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  13 
Drpd / of         :  15 
Strategy execution is difficult in practice for many reasons, but a key 
impediment to success is that many leaders don’t know what is 
strategy execution or how they should approach it.  Home-grown 
approaches may be incomplete if they fail to incorporate many of the 
basic activities highlighted above. 
 
5. How to Establish an Organization 
 
An organization is a goal-oriented, structured, planned and coordinated entity that's 
operated by two or more people. Organizations are usually nonprofit, and this nonprofit 
status is granted by the state in which the organization is located. Once an organization is 
granted nonprofit status, it may apply for a 501(c)(3) tax exemption. There are specific 
rules that apply to nonprofits and tax-exempt organizations. The organization's goals 
largely determine whether or not it will also enjoy tax-exempt status. 
 
Step 1: Create your organization's mission statement. The mission statement 
describes why your organization exists. Suggests that an initial mission statement 
shouldn't be longer than half a page. Include who the primary beneficiary is and 
how it will be helped, the values that your organization believes in, and how you 
want your organization to be perceived. 
 
Step 2:Verify that your beneficiary needs help and isn't served by another 
organization. Going through the trouble of starting an organization only to discover 
that the beneficiary doesn't need help is a waste of resources. Alternatively, if the 
beneficiary is already being served by another nonprofit, then you'll be forced to 
compete for market share -- and possibly damage the beneficiary in the process. 
 
Step 3: Fund the nonprofit. You can either seek a sponsor or raise funds. If your 
sponsor has its own tax-exempt and tax-deductible status, then it can share them 
with you. Sponsors are useful if the organization doesn't have enough money to 
pay for the legal fees associated with filing for tax-exempt status. If you plan to 
raise funds, you'll need to file Articles of Incorporation with your state attorney 
general. You'll also need to open a bank account. If you plan to sell merchandise to 
raise funds, you'll need to apply for a sales permit. 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  14 
Drpd / of         :  15 
Step 4: Apply for tax-exempt or tax-deductible status if you're not sponsored by 
another nonprofit. Once you have established your organization in your state, you 
can apply for tax-exempt or deductible status with the Internal Revenue Service. 
Keep in mind that this process is often complicated. 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION: 
 
 
1. List four (4) and explain the element of strategy execution process. 
(12 Marks) 
 
2.  List four (4) and explain the size of the organization requirements. 
(12 Marks) 
 
3. State four (4) strategy and explain the execution the business organization process.  
          (12 Marks) 
 
4. State four (4) factor and explain how to establish an organization. 
(12 Marks) 
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
15 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M01/P(1/7) Muka Surat / Page :  15 
Drpd / of         :  15 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES 
 
1. www.successfactors.com. 
2. http://smallbusiness.chron.com/factors-affecting-organizational-structure-
2778.html 
2. http://www.bain.com/publications/articles/management-tools-mission-and-vision-
statements.aspx 
3. http://www.zeepedia.com/read.php?size_of_the_organization_and_ 
information_requirements_information_systems&b=14&c=3 
4. http://misscpa.com/types-of-business-organizations/ 