1 
 
 
 
      
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE 
AND NAME 
Z-009-4: 2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
CA05  STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
NO DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
05.01 ADVOCATE EFFECTIVE THINKING 
05.02 COMPLY WITH EFECTIVE COMPETENCY 
          ANALYSIS  
05.03 APPLY STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
05.04 APPLY BUDGETARY CONTROL PROCEDURES 
05.05 APPLY PROBLEM SOLVING  TECHNIQUES 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page : 1 
Drpd / of 12 
 
TAJUK/TITLE: EFFECTIVE COMPETENCY ANALYSIS  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
 
This Information Sheet (IS) is intended to describe the knowledge, skills and attitude  
requires to advocating effective thinking in strategic thinking skills that include knowledge 
of thinking principles in relation to issues, ideas and its application  to problem solution.  
The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to comply with effective  analysis in 
thinking strategies. 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1. Competency 
    1.1 Competency" is a cluster of related knowledge, skills, and attitudes that affects a  
    major part of one’s job (a role or responsibility), that correlates with performance on the  
    job, that can be measured against well-accepted standards, and that can be improved  
    via training and development. For example - you might have good interpersonal skills  
    (skills), but will not be competent to join a company as Project Manager unless you  
    possess adequate education / experience (knowledge) and the right temperament /  
    behaviour (attitude).  
 
    1.2 Competency-based interviews (also called structured interviews) are  
    interviews where each question is designed to test one or more specific skills. The  
    answer is then matched against pre-decided criteria and marked accordingly. For  
    example, the interviewers may want to test the candidate's ability to deal with stress by  
    asking first how the candidate generally handles stress and then asking the candidate  
    to provide an example of a situation where he worked under pressure. 
 
   1.3 Normal interviews (also called unstructured interviews) are essentially a  
    conversation where the interviewers ask a few questions that are relevant to what they  
    are looking for but without any specific aim in mind other than getting an overall  
    impression of you as an individual. Questions are fairly random and can sometimes be  
    quite open. For example, a question such as "What can you offer our company?" is  
    meant to gather general information about you but does not test any specific skill or  
    competency. In an unstructured interview, the candidate is judged on the general  
    impression that he/she leaves; the process is therefore likely to be more subjective. 
 
   1.4 Competency-based interviews (also called structured or behavioural interviews) are  
   more systematic, with each question targeting a specific skill or competency.  
   Candidates are asked questions relating to their behaviour in specific circumstances,  
   which they then need to back up with concrete examples. The interviewers will then dig  
   further into the examples by asking for specific explanations about the candidate's  
   behaviour or skills. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
 
 
   1.5 Many interviews now are competency-based which means that the interviewer will  
   be looking for you to answer questions about your abilities and experience in the context  
   of actual events. It is worth preparing in advance at least two examples for each  
   competency as it is not unheard of for the recruiter to ask for a second example,  
   particularly if you have already quoted one on an application form. 
 
   1.6 The list of skills and competencies that can be tested varies depending on the post  
   that you are applying for. For example, for a Personal Assistant post, skills and  
   competencies would include communication skills; ability to organise and prioritise; and  
   ability to work under pressure. For a senior manager, skills and competencies may  
   include an ability to influence and negotiate; an ability to cope with stress and pressure;  
   an ability to lead; and the capacity to take calculated risks. 
 
2.  Ideas 
    1.1 Ideas are usually construed as mental representational images of some object.  
     Ideas can also be abstract concepts that do not present as mental images. Many  
     philosophers have considered ideas to be a fundamental ontological category of  
     being. The capacity to create and understand the meaning of ideas is considered to  
     be an essential and defining feature of human beings. In a popular sense, an idea  
     arises in a reflexive, spontaneous manner, even without thinking or serious reflection,  
     for example, when we talk about the idea of a person or a place. 
 
     2.2 Generating Idea 
     The process of creating, developing, and communicating ideas which are abstract,  
     concrete, or visual is known as idea generation. The process includes the process 
     of constructing through the idea, innovating the concept, developing the process,  
     and bringing the concept to reality. An idea is usually generated with intent, but can  
     also be created unintentionally. Ideas often form: 
i) During brainstorming sessions or through discussions. 
ii) As an impression or notion that tries to portray the overarching scope or outline. 
iii) As an opinion or belief.  
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 Information 
 Information is facts provided or learned about something or someone. Information is  
 conveyed or represented by a particular arrangement or sequence of things and has  
 meaning in some context for its receiver. 
 
2.4 Language and Tone.  
 Tone is the use of pitch in language to distinguish lexical or grammatical meaning –  
 that is, to distinguish or to inflect words. All verbal languages use pitch to express  
 emotional and other paralinguistic information and to convey emphasis, contrast,  
 and other such features in what is called intonation, but not all languages use tones to  
 distinguish words or their inflections, analogously to consonants and vowels.  
 Languages that do have this feature are called tonal languages; the distinctive tone  
 patterns of such a language are sometimes called tonemes. 
 
2.5 What does it take to communicate with another person? 
We communicate with much more than our words. In face-to-face communication, words 
are only part of the message. The balance of the message, and in fact, the largest part of 
the message send to others is made up of non-verbal information. It is composed of two 
communication elements of body language and tone of voice that are: 
i) Face to face communication 
Figure 1.2: Overloading of Ideas 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
 
ii) Tone of voice - the tone of voice use in communication is responsible for about 35-40 
percent of the message we are sending. Tone involves the volume you use, the level 
and type of emotion that you communicate and the emphasis that you place on the 
words that you choose. 
 
2.5 Ideas and Information Sources 
Sources of ideas and information are useful in project activities such as concept 
generation, detail design, brainstorming, evaluation matrices, quality function deployment 
and morphological methods. These sources include: 
       i) Books: 
          a) Handbooks: Handbooks on data, procedures and technical information covering  
               various topics such as materials, finishing and coating, machining, and design for  
               manufacturability. 
 
 
b) Textbooks: Books are frequently a good source of information. Although technical 
information may not be the most up to date by the time a book is published, even 
some very old texts can sometimes provide or at least stimulate some interesting 
ideas. Some old ideas can find a new life through novel materials, processing or 
design methods. 
 
c) Industry manuals: Many engineering associations produce manuals that provide 
general (e.g., design procedures) and specific (e.g., motors, bearings) 
information about standard products, parts and procedures. Nuts and bolts, for 
example, are described in the SAE Handbook. 
 
d) Periodicals and Technical Reports: 
 Trade Magazines: There are a number of trade magazines that cover 
general design issues or are targeted at a specialized technical field. These 
magazines are often a source of solutions for current problems. Besides the 
articles in these magazines, the advertisements can provide a fruitful source 
of ideas. As it is difficult to pinpoint specific information in trade magazines, it 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd. / of:  12 
is a good practice to make a habit of regularly reading or at least scanning 
these publications so information can be located when required. 
 Research Journals: Research journals directly related to the specific area of 
the problem to be solved may provide modelling and analysis of specific 
problems as well as more general information that can lead to a design 
solution. 
 
e) Databases: Databases provide a mechanism by which articles from hundreds of 
technical journals spanning numerous years can be search for a specific subject. 
The usability of these databases has been greatly enhanced in recent years by 
computerization. Examples of these databases include: 
 The Engineering Index and The National Technical Information Service. 
These databases can be searched by general categories or specific key 
words can be used for more targeted searches. Directories 
 Thomas Register: The Thomas Register of American Manufacturers is a set 
of volumes that provide information about manufacturers of a multitude of 
products and services. It can typically be found in the library but is now 
conveniently available on the Internet at www.thomasregister.com. 
 
 Fraser’s Canadian Trade Directory: Similar to the Thomas Register, Fraser’s 
Canadian Trade Directory provides information about Canadian providers of 
products and services. It is available in both hard copy and CD-ROM 
formats, and can also be accessed through the Internet at www.frasers.com 
where searches can be conducted within the categories of company, 
product/service or brand name. 
 Yellow Pages: The yellow pages are another source for suppliers and 
manufacturers. If availability from local suppliers is insufficient, yellow pages 
for other cities can often be found at the library or on the Internet. 
 Catalogues: There are hundreds of catalogues of parts, assemblies and 
materials available through vendors. These catalogues are often available 
through workshops and resource centres, or can be ordered by mailing away 
request cards often included in trade publications. Other Literature Sources 
 World Wide Web: Searching the Internet can lead to websites belonging to 
vendors, manufacturers, consultants, design companies, professional 
organizations and educational centres, to name a few.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 Brochures: Marketing publications available from competitors or for related 
products can sometimes provide valuable information.  
 
        ii) People as Idea and Information Sources: An extremely valuable source of ideas  
that often gets overlooked is people. It is truly amazing the viable ideas that can 
come from not only subject experts, but also the most unlikely sources including 
the person sitting next to you on the plane or a small child. Designers should never 
be afraid to ask others for ideas. Even if someone does not have any solutions to 
offer, they may know where to locate information or a person who can provide 
information. This is called networking and can be one of the most powerful tools in 
business today. 
a) Colleagues: Colleagues are usually a very approachable source of ideas. They 
may be people within the same company, contacts within other organizations or 
former classmates. 
b) Consultants: Consultants are generally people who are experts in a certain 
area. Although mostly paid for there expertise, many willingly will answer 
questions and provide information as long as it is not in conflict with their 
commitments and doesn’t require a great deal of time. Consultants can  
generally be located through word-of-mouth, professional directories, yellow 
pages, educational institutions or the Internet. 
c) Vendors: Although vendors typically are interested in selling their product, 
many value the development of relationships and will therefore often be a 
willing source of ideas and even samples. Vendors are an excellent resource 
as they often are current in technology and have the opportunity to visit a 
variety of companies where they can view different ways of doing things.  
d) Customers: Customers are an excellent source of ideas. Often they have 
conducted their own research before committing to working with a team of 
designers on a specific project. They may have seen similar products in use 
and have ideas on different concepts that could be employed. 
e) Lead users: These people are those that had a need for a product long before 
the general population. Lead users have often created adaptations or invented 
their own solutions to satisfy their requirements until a new product comes 
along. • Friends/family: Many designers find ideas for projects when casually 
talking to friends and family. Sometimes people who have little knowledge of 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd. / of:  12 
the technology or the specific problem to be solved may look at things from a 
different perspective and propose creative solutions. 
 
 
 
         iii)  Organizations as Idea and Information Sources  
a) Government: There are numerous sources within all levels of government 
have standards and guidelines based on extensive research. 
b) Professional Organizations: Groups such as Association of Professional 
Engineers often have publications and codes available. This organization 
typically can identify and provide contact information for experts on a given 
subject. 
 
         iv) Other Idea and Information Sources 
a) Nature: Many innovative technical solutions are based on principles found in 
nature. Birds have provided concepts for winged flight as fish have for 
submarines. Honeycombs have provided examples of lightweight but strong 
structures and the arch of the human foot demonstrates the effectiveness of 
a keystone bridge structure for supporting heavy loads. Velcro™, an  
extensively used fastening device, was based on the gripping capabilities of 
a burr. 
b) Patents: Patents are an excellent source of technical ideas. Although the use 
of protected products may be prohibited or require the payment of a royalty, 
expired and foreign patents without global coverage can be used. Reviewing 
restricted patents may spawn innovative new ideas that do not fall under the 
restriction of a patent.  
 
c) Analogies: The creative technique of using analogies involves examining the 
similarities between the current design problem and another similar problem. 
 
2.6  Analytical skills? 
Analytical skills are the ability to visualize, gather information, articulate, analyse, solve 
complex problems, and make decisions. Such skills include demonstration of the ability to 
apply logical thinking to gathering and analysing information, designing and testing 
solutions to problems, and formulating plans. This skills are essential in the workplace to 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  9 
Drpd. / of:  12 
ensure necessary problem solving occurs to keep productivity and other areas of the 
workforce functioning smoothly. 
 
 
 
 
In all instances analytical skills require you to dissect a problem and then find a solution 
for that problem. There are many skills required within a company and its workforce, but 
analytical skills are essential in every organization. 
      i) Testing Analytical Skills 
         If you were to test for analytical skills you might be asked to take a series of events  
         and put them in proper sequence, look for advertisement inconsistencies, or read an  
         essay with a critical eye. There are generally standardized tests used as a guideline.  
        There are many examples of analytical skills that can be applied in a work  
         environment. A few examples include: 
a) Analysing abilities: The ability to take a large volumes of data and then 
analyse trends and produce a result 
b) Dealing with problems: Give examples of problem solving at work 
c) Programming: Write a systems program with accurate results output 
d) Reporting: A written report on the effectiveness of a particular event such as a 
political campaign. 
e) Handling assignments effectively: Discovering a more efficient and productive 
way to complete a particular job task. 
f) Process: Creating a set of steps to implement a process that could have a yes 
or no outcome. 
g) Problem handler: Identifying a problem and then creating a repair to avoid it 
becoming a major problem. 
h) Collect information: Analyze the data from the information collected, and come 
up with a solution to a problem. 
 
2.7  Effective Analysis  
Although many ideas result from brainstorming, storyboarding and other creative 
processes, the majority either stem directly from or are based on existing ideas from 
various sources. For example, an analysis of competitive, legacy or similar products, or 
individual functions or components of these products, may lead to design solutions. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  10 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
There are a number of approaches for organizing, assessing manipulating ideas as 
describe in Pahl and Beitz such as systematic combination, and combining with the help of 
mathematical methods and Hyman - morphological boxes and charts. The use of 
checklists is another technique for creative thinking and manipulating ideas. Checklist A 
provides an example of an idea-generating checklist suggests some basic guidelines to 
follow when attempting to locate information: 
 
Nos. Basic Guidelines 
1. Take the time to determine clearly the information that is required.  
2. It always takes longer than anticipated to find information. Be generous 
with time allotments.  
3. Determine what is already known such as individuals or companies 
working in the field of interest. Use relevant dates to help with the search 
(e.g., information on lasers will likely be found in publications from 1960 
and newer). 
4. Consult the easiest and most accessible tools first.  
5. Be as specific as possible. However, if a specific search proves futile, a 
broader search may have to be employed.  
6. Do not stop with a single reference. Search also for newer and alternate 
sources.  
7. If a search is going nowhere, re-evaluate the search criteria and/ or 
sources. • It is better to ask for help than waste time. Other hints that 
should be considered when searching for ideas and information include:  
8. Consider the source. If information is obtained from a periodical at a 
grocery checkout counter or a personal website, it is advisable to seek 
other sources to confirm or refute the validity of the information. It is even 
advisable to consult multiple sources to confirm information obtained from 
reputable sources.  
9 Weigh the value of the information against  
10. Peruse cited references within documents for other potential sources of 
information. 
 
2.8  Effective analysis strategies. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  11 
Drpd. / of:  12 
Effective Analysis (EA) involves deciphering the consequences of those break downs by 
making sure that all failures can be detected, determining how frequently a failure might 
occur and identifying which potential failures should be prioritized. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION: 
 
1. Explain the different between ideas and information. 
2. What do you understand with analytical skills? 
3. List 10 basic guidelines that you might consider in your idea generating checklist 
of effective analysis. 
4. With the aids of a diagram, describe the strategies you might use to comply with 
effective analysis.  
5.        Explain briefly about competencies? 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.8: Compliance to Effective Analysis 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
12 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(2/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  12 
Drpd. / of:  12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
1. (Prentice Hall, 2002). Strategic and Competitive Analysis: Methods and Techniques 
for Analyzing Business Competition. Retrieved online from website: 
 http://mindshifts.com.au/downloads/strategiccompetitive.pdf 
 
2. Retrieved online from website: http://study.com/academy/lesson/organizing-and-
categorizing-ideas-concepts-and-information.html 3: Organizing and Categorizing 
Ideas, Concepts and Information.  
 
3. Retrieved online from website: 
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/idea.html  
 
4. Retrieved online from website: http://bookboon.com/blog/2013/03/Do you use your 
tone of voice and body language to your advantage?  
 
5. Retrieved online from website: 
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/idea.html- Sources of Ideas & 
Information.doc Page 1 of 9 V0.0 
 
6. Peter Walsh (2014). Are You A Strategic Thinker? Retrieved online from website: 
 http://www.harvardbusiness.org/blog/are-you-strategic-thinker  
7. Karaali (2013). 5 Elements of Effective Thinking. Retrieved online from website: 
http://www.maa.org/press/maa-reviews/the-5-elements-of-effective- thinking 
8. Retrieved online from website: http://bookboon.com/blog/2013/03/do-you-
use-your-tone-of-voice-and-body-language-to-your-advantage 
 
9. K. Gerlach (2014). Keys to Effective Thinking; Stay aware and focused, and 
avoid vague language. 
 