# Z-009-3-2015\CA3 LEADERSHIP SKILL\SUB MODULE 3 - TEAM WORK  ABILITIES\Kertas Penerangan 3.3.pdf

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
 
 
 
             
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE AND 
NAME 
 
Z-009-3:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
3 (THREE) 
NO DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS /  
CORE ABILITY NO AND 
TITLE 
 
CA03 LEADERSHIP SKILLS 
 
NO DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO AND 
STATEMENT 
03.01  DEMONSTRATE COUNSELING ABILITIES  
03.02  DEMONSTRATE RESPONSIBILITY AND 
            AUTHORITY ABILITIES 
03.03  DEMONSTRATE TEAM WORK ABILITIES 
03.04  DEMONSTRATE EMOTIONAL CONTROL IN    
           CONFLICTS 
03.05  APPLY WORK KNOWLEDGE IN IDENTIFYING  
           CLIENTS’ NEED 
03.06  MONITOR WORK PERFORMANCE DELIVERIES 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of                 :  9 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  TEAM WORK 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this section is to provide the trainee with information and self-assessment 
and skill development exercises that will assist the trainee to develop teamwork skills. The 
person who is competent in this module will become a more effective leader as he/she is 
able to develop team work skills which benefits the performance and reduce problems 
through a good teamwork skills practices. 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7-8, BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET)

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of                :  9 
 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
1. Team Work Abilities 
1.1 Team work is cooperative or coordinated effort on the part of a group of persons 
acting together as a team or in the interests of a common cause. 
 
1.2 The best working team is a group of workers who are able to take responsibilities for 
managing their own work. A self-managing work team is a small group of employees 
responsible for managing and performing technical tasks to deliver a product or 
service to an external or internal customer. 
 
1.3 Advantages and disadvantages of team work are: 
i) Advantages: A group of knowledgeable people can bring about synergy, whereby  
   the group’s total output exceeds the sum of each individual’s contribution. Groups  
   help gain acceptance and commitment. Team members often critically evaluate  
   each other’s thinking, thus avoiding major errors. Working in teams and other  
   group also enhances job satisfaction and need satisfaction, such as the need for  
   affiliation. 
 
         ii) Disadvantages: Groups and teams often talk too much and act too little. A major  
             problem in groups is pressure toward conformity to group standards of  
             performance and conduct which could hurt the organization. Social loafing is the  
             shirking of individual responsibility in a group setting. At their worst, groups foster  
             conflict, with people bickering about matters such as doing a fair share of work.  
             Groups can become xenophobic, thus entering into conflict with other groups. 
 
1.4 Characteristics of effective teams are: 
i) 
Membership: two or more individuals work together toward a common goal. 
ii) 
Common goal: the members have negotiated shared aims and goals. 
iii) Social organizations: the group develops or actively negotiates functional 
norms, roles, and relationships; 
iv) Interdependence between members: members succeed only if all succeed.

===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of                :  9 
v) Productive involvement: all members are supported to contribute equally to the 
workload; resources and skills are identified early on and used effectively. 
Decisions are made by consensus. 
vi) Effective communication and interaction: face-to-face and other modes of 
communication help to monitor group processes and dynamics, drive creativity 
and enable productive work practices 
vii) Mutual interest: members focus on the interests of the group as a whole, and 
avoid personalising problems or differences of opinion 
viii) Collective consciousness: members perceive themselves as belonging to the 
group even when the group is not together 
ix) Mutual trust: members listen to each other, respect contributions, help each 
other to clarify ideas, and show interest in each other 
x) Cohesion: group processes function smoothly without need for intervention, 
members are able to contribute equally to produce something greater than the 
individual parts, individual contributions are brought together seamlessly and 
within nominated deadlines, and members feel they have learnt something from 
the process and from the other group members 
 
1.5 
A major challenge in becoming an effective team member is to choose the right 
roles to occupy. Frequently observed positive roles are : 
i) 
Knowledge Contributor: The Knowledge Contributor provides the group with 
useful    and valid information, and shares technical expertise with team 
members. A    person occupying this role pays enough attention to the human 
element to get the task accomplished. 
ii) 
Process Observer: The process, or soft side, of teamwork includes the 
transactions that take place among and between team members. The Process 
Observer forces the group to look at how it is functioning by confronting others 
about the transactions taking place. 
iii) Collaborator: The collaborator keeps the team focused on its goal and 
frequently reminds the group to do whatever is necessary to stay on track. 
iv) People Supporter: The People Supporter assumes some of the leader’s 
responsibility for providing emotional support to teammates and resolving 
conflict. He or she serves as a model of active listening, and is a model of 
etiquette and professionalism.

===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of                :  9 
v) Challenger: The Challenger confronts and challenges bad ideas, yet has good 
interpersonal skills. He or she will criticize any decision or preliminary thinking 
that is deficient, including ethical problems. 
vi) Listener: Listening is part of other roles, yet it contributes so substantially to 
team success that it comprises a separate role. The team leader must shift 
frequently into the Listener role. The Listener provides summaries for the group. 
vii) Mediator: The Mediator attempts to resolve conflict by asking permission to 
interpret each position, then makes the interpretation. Each side is given the 
opportunity to edit or correct the statement of his or her position. Mediation can 
move a group away from being stuck, and on to more productive activity. 
viii) Gatekeeper: When the opportunity gate for speaking is closed for several 
members, the Gatekeeper intentionally opens the gate. The Gatekeeper will 
request that a specific team member be allowed to contribute, or that his or her 
past contribution be recognized. 
 
 2. Team Cooperation 
     2.1 In the workplace, cooperation represents the blending of many skills to produce  
           collective achievement. Even in teams where some members are competitive in  
           nature, there are simple things you can do inspire genuine cooperation. 
 
    2.2  All workplace teams have the common element of people working together  
           cooperatively and members possessing a mix of skills. 
           i) Self-Managing Work Teams: The best known work team is a group of workers  
              who take over much of the responsibility for managing their own work. A self- 
              managing work team is a small group of employees responsible for managing  
              and performing technical tasks to deliver a product or service to an external or  
              internal customer. The vast majority of large- and medium-size firms make some  
              use of self-managing work teams. Such teams perform a wide variety of  
              manufacturing and service activities. 
          ii) Cross-Functional Teams: A cross-functional team is a work group composed of  
              workers from different specialties, at about the same organizational level, who  
              come together to accomplish a task. The people from different specialties are  
              supposed to blend their talents. Cross-functional teams are widely used in  
              product development. 
         iii)  Virtual Teams: Some teams conduct most of their work by sending electronic

===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of                :  9 
              messages to each other rather than conducting face-to-face meetings. A virtual  
              team is a small group of people who conduct almost all of their collaborative work  
              by electronic communication rather than face-to-face meetings. 
 
 
 2.3 In creating a good team cooperation, team members must: 
       i) Focus on Team Goals –Keeping the team’s goals center stage, and explaining how  
          each person’s “to do’s” contribute to the team’s mission, encourages team members  
          to be more cooperative as individuals in order to be more competitive as a team. 
     ii)  Focus Team Members on Doing Their Best (Not on “Besting” Other Teammates) – 
          Make sure members know that they’ve been put on the team not to show what they  
          can do personally, but rather to assist in making the TEAM successful. Identify each  
          person’s strengths from the standpoint of how those strengths will blend with others  
          to help the team achieve its desired outcomes. 
     iii) Reward the Team by Distributing Rewards Cooperatively Rather than Competitively  
          – Celebrate as a group when the team defeats its “opponent” (such as solving a key  
         problem) and recognize individual contributions toward that victory. 
    iv) Don’t Confine Cooperation – Encourage team members to find ways of cooperating  
        with other departments and outside entities in order to uncover fresh insights and  
        new ways of doing things. 
 
2.4 Effectiveness as a team player can be enhanced by understanding the skills, actions,  
      and attitudes required to be an effective team player. A convenient method for  
      classifying team activities in pursuit of goals is people-related versus task-related. 
      i) Trusting Team Members: The cornerstone attitude of an outstanding team player is  
         to trust team members including the leader. Working on a team is akin to a small  
         business partnership. Trusting team members also includes believing that their ideas  
         are technically sound and rational until proven otherwise. 
     ii) High Level of Cooperation and Collaboration: Cooperation and collaboration are  
        synonymous with teamwork. Collaboration at a team level refers to working jointly  
        with others to solve mutual problems. Achieving a cooperative team spirit is often a  
        question of making the first move. 
    iii) Recognizing the Interests and Achievements of Others: A fundamental tactic for  
        establishing oneself as a solid team player is to actively recognize the interests and  
        achievements of others. Let others know that you care about their interests. Be

===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of                :  9 
        prepared to compliment any tangible achievement. 
   iv) Share the Glory: An effective team player shares praise and other rewards for  
        accomplishment even if he or she were the most deserving. Shared praise is usually  
        merited to some extent because teammates have probably made at least some  
        contribution to the achievement that received praise. 
    v) Don’t Rain On Another Person’s Parade: We all have achievements and  
        accomplishments that are sources of pride. Belittling the achievements of others for  
        no legitimate reasons brings about tension and anger. Suppress your feelings of  
        petty jealousy. 
 
3. Communication Skills 
   3.1 Communiactions is the process of transferring signals or messages between a  
         sender and a receiver through various methods such as written words, nonverbal  
         cues, or spoken words. Effective communication skills are fundamental to success in  
         many aspects of life.  Many jobs require strong communication skills and socially  
         people with improved communication skills usually enjoy better interpersonal  
         relationships with friends and family. 
   3.2 To function successfully in a small group, trainee needs to be able to communicate  
         clearly on intellectual and emotional levels. Effective communicators: 
i) can explain their own ideas 
ii) express their feelings in an open but non-threatening way 
iii) listen carefully to others 
iv) ask questions to clarify others’ ideas and emotions 
v) can sense how others feel based on their nonverbal communication 
vi) will initiate conversations about group climate or process if they sense tensions  
a) brewing reflect on the activities and interactions of their group and 
encourage other  
b) group members to do so as well 
 
   3.3 To work together successfully, group members must demonstrate a sense of  
          cohesion. Cohesion emerges as group members exhibit the following skills: 
          i) Openness: Group members are willing to get to know one another, particularly  
             those with different interests and backgrounds. They are open to new ideas,  
             diverse viewpoints, and the variety of individuals present within the group. They  
             listen to others and elicit their ideas. They know how to balance the need for

===== PAGE 7 =====
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of                :  9 
             cohesion within a group with the need for individual expression. 
         ii) Trust and self-disclosure: Group members trust one another enough to share their  
             own ideas and feelings. A sense of mutual trust develops only to the extent that  
             everyone is willing to self-disclose and be honest yet respectful. Trust also grows  
             as group members demonstrate personal accountability for the tasks they have  
             been assigned. 
        iii) Support: Group members demonstrate support for one another as they  
             accomplish their goals. They exemplify a sense of team loyalty and both cheer on  
             the group as a whole and help members who are experiencing difficulties. They  
             view one another not as competitors (which is common within a typically  
             individualistic educational system) but as collaborators. 
        iv) Respect: Group members communicate their opinions in a way that respects  
            others, focusing on “What can we learn?” rather than “Who is to blame?” See  
            constructive feedback in the process section for more details. 
 
  3.4 Besides knowing how to develop a healthy group climate, trainee also needs to know  
        how to function so that they are productive and accomplish their tasks effectively. An  
        effective process will emerge as trainee exhibit these skills: 
        i) Individual responsibility and accountability: All group members agree on what  
           needs to be done and by whom. Each student then determines what he or she  
           needs to do and takes responsibility to complete the task(s). They can be held  
           accountable for their tasks, and they hold others accountable for theirs. 
       ii) Constructive Feedback: Group members are able to give and receive feedback  
           about group ideas. Giving constructive feedback requires focusing on ideas and  
           behaviours, instead of individuals, being as positive as possible and offering  
           suggestions for improvement. Receiving feedback requires listening well, asking for  
           clarification if the comment is unclear, and being open to change and other ideas. 
       iii) Problem solving: Group members help the group to develop and use strategies  
           central to their group goals. As such, they can facilitate group decision making and  
            deal productively with conflict. In extreme cases, they know when to approach the  
            professor for additional advice and help. 
       iv) Management and organization: Group members know how to plan and manage a  
            task, how to manage their time, and how to run a meeting. For example, they  
            ensure that meeting goals are set, that an agenda is created and followed, and  
            that everyone has an opportunity to participate. They stay focused on the task and

===== PAGE 8 =====
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of                :  9 
            help others to do so too. 
        v) Knowledge of roles: Group members know which roles can be filled within a group  
            (e.g., facilitator, idea-generator, summarizer, evaluator, mediator, encourager) and  
            are aware of which role(s) they and others are best suited for. They are also willing  
            to rotate roles to maximize their own and others’ group learning experience. 
 
 
 
4. Training And Development Program 
   4.1 The purpose of training and management development programs is to improve  
         employee capabilities and organizational capabilities. Training and development  
         programs may be focused on individual performance or team performance.

===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M03/P(3/6) 
Mukasurat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of                :  9 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of team work practice?  
 
2. What are some of the characteristics of effective team work? 
 
3. How to choose roles as team member? 
 
4. What are the types of team work? 
 
5. How to creat a good team cooperation? 
 
6. What is communication skills and how to succeed the skills? 
 
7. Why training and development program are important to organization? 
 
 
 
     RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. Patrick Lencioni. (2002) The Five Dysfunctions of a Team: A Leadership Fable. ISBN-
13:978-078-7960-75-9 
2.  John C.Maxwell. (2001) The 17 Indisputable Laws of Teamwork. ISBN-13: 978-078- 
      5274-34-6