 
50 
 
 
      
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE & NAME 
Z-009-1: 2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA02 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
02.01 ENSURE HEALTH CONCIOUSNESS 
02.02 ENSURE SAFETY CONCIOUSNESS 
02.03 ENSURE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 
PROGRAM 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  13 
 
TAJUK/TITLE: ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS PROGRAM 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This information sheet is intended todescribe the implementation of environmental 
awareness programs that can be conducted at workplace  for workers and also public.The 
person who is competent in this CA shall be able to ensure environment  awareness 
programme at workplace and public. 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
Environmental awareness program objectives 
Environment is degrading at a much faster pace than our imagination. Most of this mess is 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
51 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
caused by human activities. The damage is both at global and regional level. The rapid 
development of economic activities, especially in the agriculture and industrial sectors, 
have accelerated the process of urbanisation  and infrastructure development. Th e 
changes of ecosystem started with changes in the forest ecosystem which then carried on 
to agricultural areas. Later, these agricultural areas changed into urban areas. In some 
ways, rapid changes are setback because the ecosystem is disturbed. This lead s to many 
environmental problems such as flash flood, coastal erosion, water supply disruption, loss 
of biodiversity, loss of breeding areas for marine life and increasing temperature.  
Therefore whatsoever wrong has been done must 
be rectified. Maintenance of ecological balance and 
a pristine environment has been of utmost 
importance. A regime of strict protocols for 
employees and contractors to lessen or eliminate 
the impact of emissions or waste on the 
environments in which they work need to be 
devised. To protect and manage environment, it is 
imperative to have a sound environmental education. It is a way to teach people and 
societies on how to use the present and future resources optimally. 
Environmental education is a learning process that increases k nowledge and awareness 
about the environment and associated challenges, develops the necessary skills and 
expertise to address the challenges, fosters attitudes, motivations and commitments to 
make informed decisions and take responsible action. The compon ents of environmental 
education are: 
 awareness and sensitivity to the environment and environmental challenges; 
 knowledge and understanding of the environment and environmental challenges; 
 attitudes of concern for the environment and motivation to improve or maintain 
environmental quality; 
 skills to identify and help resolve environmental challenges. 
Environmental awareness needs to be created through  formal and in formal education to 
all sections of the society. Everyone needs to understand it because‚ environment belongs 
to all and, every individual  matters when it comes to conservation and protection of 
environment. Various stages and methods that can be useful for raising environmental 
awareness in different section: 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
52 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
i) Among students through education 
Environmental education must be imparted to the students right from the childhood 
stage. Itis a welcome step that now all over the country we are 
introducingenvironmental studies as a subject at all stages including school 
andcollege level. 
ii) Among the Masses through mass-media 
Media can play animportant role to educate the masses on environmental issues 
througharticles, environmental rallies, plantation campaigns, street plays, realeco -
disaster stories and success stories o f conservation efforts. TV ser ials can be  
effective in propagating the seedsof environmental awareness amongst the viewers 
of all age groups. 
iii) Among the industries, employers and workers 
Since they are the main contributors to environmental effects to the world, 
awareness and education will help them in understanding the importance and the 
right way to conserve the environment. Campaign and training is one of the methods 
in doing this. 
iv) Among the planners, decision-makers and leaders 
Sincethis elite section of the society plays the most important role in shapingthe 
future of the society, it is very important to give them the necessaryorientation and 
training through specially organized workshops andtraining programmes. 
Publication of environment , related resource material in the formof pa mphlets or booklets 
published by Department of Environmental can also help in keeping this section abreast of 
the latest developments in the field. 
Environmental awareness proves important for several reasons; it fosters a sense of 
connection to the natura l world, promotes sustainable development and encourages 
conservation of irreplaceable natural resources and vulnerable plant and animal species. 
Environmental awareness essentially serves as an educational tool, helping the industries 
especially the manag ement to understand the importance of controlling by means of 
reducing or eliminating the harmful impacts of work activities by the workers to 
environment. The need to spread environmental awareness is enormous in the context of 
successfully addressing environmental problems.  
As for the industries, worker’s responsible for environmental management should be 
properly qualified and have the awareness, knowledge and skills to implement 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
53 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
environmental best practices in accordance with regional and international standards. 
Various training programs may be appropriate for them to undergo before they embark 
upon staff training, such as ISO 14001 and EMS foundation courses, or other.  
As refer ring to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004, it is the 
responsibility of the concerned manager to identify needs, develop and implement 
comprehensive awareness program . Environmental Management System (EMS) 
coordinator shall review the progr am every quarter.  The development of a culture of 
continuous environmental education andtraining will provide greater awareness capability 
and motivation toemployees and enable them to conduct their daily operational activitiesin 
an environmentally responsible manner. Such a program can be astrong motivat ional tool 
and can bind workers closer to the company’senvironmental ethic. 
The Environmental Awareness programs allows all workers to identify factors associated 
with the risks to the environment. It enables an organisation to establish an environmental 
management system allowing workers to implement practical steps to protect the 
environment.  
 
Awareness programs (Industries Level) 
What employers and workers should know about environment during their everyday work 
and how their action and prevention  can contribute in conserving the environment ? Main 
agenda that they need to be tought and aware of is the environmental pollutions. 
Global Warming  
Global warming is the term used to describe a gradual 
increase in the average temperature of the Earth's 
atmosphere and its oceans, a change that is believed to 
be permanently changing the Earth’s climate. The 
increased volumes of carbon dioxide and other 
greenhouse gases released by the burning of fossil 
fuels, land clearing , agriculture, and other human 
activities, are believed to be the primary sources of the 
global warming that has occurred over the past 50 years. 
In some manufacturing industries, g reenhouse gases like hydrofluorocarbons, methane 
and nitrous oxide released as by -products of certain manufacturing industry processes, 
which are adversely affect the ozone layer, and leading to global warming. 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
54 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
 
 
 
Air pollutions 
Generally any substance that people 
introduce into the atmosphere that has 
damaging effects on living things and the 
environment is considered air pollution. 
Manufacturing industries release large 
amount of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, 
organic compounds, and chemicals into the 
air thereby depleting the quality of air. 
Ammonia is a very common by-product from agriculture related activities and is one of the 
most hazardous gases in the atmosphere. Use of insecticides, pesticides and fertilizers in 
agricultural activities has grown quite a lot. They emit harmful chemicals into the air.  
Mining is a process wherein  minerals below the earth are extracted using larg e 
equipments. During the process dust and chemicals are released in the air and causing 
massive air pollution. This is one of the reason s, which is responsible for the deteriorating 
health conditions of workers and nearby residents. 
 
Water pollutions 
Water pollution is the contamination of natural 
water bodies by chemical, physical, radioactive 
or pathogenic microbial  substances. Chemical 
water pollutants are generally atoms or 
molecules, which have been discharged into 
natural water bodies, usually b y activities of 
humans. Common examples of such chemical 
water pollutants are mercury emanating from 
mining activity, certain nitrogen compounds used in agriculture, chlorinated organic 
molecules arising from sewage or water treatment plants or various acids which are the 
externalities of various manufacturing activities. Physical water pollutants are either (a) 
much larger particles or (b) physical factors such as temperature change, both of which 
while not typically toxic, cause a variety of harmful effects. 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
55 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
 
 
 
Noise pollutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Noise is unwanted sound. The main sources of noise are various  modes of transportation 
(like air, road, rail -transportation), industrial  operations, construction activities and 
celebrations (social/religious  functions, elections etc)  and also use of  electric home 
appliances. Noise causes the following effects: 
 interferes with man’s communication  - in a noisy area , communication is severely 
affected 
 hearing damage - noise can cause temporary or permanent  hearing loss. It depends 
on intensity and durati on of sound level.  Auditory sensitivity is reduced with noise 
level of over 90 dB in themed high frequency for more than a few minutes 
 physiological and psychological changes – continuous exposure to noise affects the 
functioning of various systems of the body. It may result in hypertension, insomnia 
(sleeplessness), gastro -intestinaland digestive disorders, peptic ulcers, blood 
pressure changes, behavioural changes, emotional changes, etc. 
 
Soil pollutions 
Industrial wastes are the effluents discharged fr om 
chemicalindustries, paper and pulp mills, tanneries, 
textile mills, steel industries,distilleries, refineries, 
pesticides and fertilizer industries, 
pharmaceuticalindustries, food processing industries, 
cement industries, thermal andnuclear power plants , 
mining industries, etc.Thermal power plants generate a 
large quantity of ‚ ’fly ash’ . Huge quantities of these wastesare dumped on soils, thus 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
56 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
contaminating them.Pesticides are used to kill pests that damage crops. These 
pesticidesultimately reach the soil and persist there for a long time. Pesticideswhich are 
persistent in nature are chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides .Residuesof these pesticides 
in the soils have long term effects especially underthe temperate conditions.Industrial 
wastes also contai n some organic and inorganiccompounds that are refractory and non -
biodegradable.  
Industrial sludgemay contain various salts, toxic substances, metals like mercury, 
lead,cadmium, arsenic etc. Agrochemicals released with the wastes ofpesticide and 
fertilizer factories or during agricultural practices alsoreach the soil and pollute it.Soil also 
receives excreta from animals and humans. The sewagesludge contains many pathogenic 
organisms, bacteria, viruses andintestinal worms which cause pollution in the soil. The 
sources of radioactive substances in soil are explosion ofradioactive devices, radioactive 
wastes discharged from industries andlaboratories, aerial fall out , etc. Isotopes of radium, 
uranium, thorium,strontium, iodine, caesium and of many other elements reach the soiland 
persist there for a long time and keep on emitting radiations. 
 
Some awareness activities and education that can be implemented at workplace  that can 
contribute in conserving the environment are: 
 Plant as many trees and plants as your space permits in the workplace vacinity - 
plants and trees absorb carbon dioxide and convert it into oxygen, thus helping to 
maintain carbon dioxide levels, but with deforestation taking place, carbon dioxide 
levels are only increasing. One tree can absorb approximately one tonne of carbon 
dioxide in its lifetime. Other than that, trees and plant helps as noise buffer. 
 Implement waste management - waste management policies , which reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions include  landfill gas capture and use and ‘Refus e, Reuse, 
Recycle and Reduce’ (4R) concept. Reducing refused production or using alternative 
means of disposal that reduce greenhouse gases emissions from waste 
decomposition and processing can have a large impact. 
 Promote the usage of public transport than private vehicles - this can reduce number 
of vehicles on the road at one time, thus  carbon emissions and also noise pollutions 
can be reduced. Vehicular pollution can be checked by regular tune -up of engines; 
replacement of more polluting old vehicles; installing  catalytic converters; engine 
modification to have fuel  efficient (lean) mixtures to reduce CO and hydro  carbon 
emissions; and slow and cooler burning of fuels to reduce Nox emission 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
57 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
 Encourage workers to use bicycle inside workplace vacinity. 
 Reduce and conserve heat - heat loss is one of the biggest energy wastes . This can 
be reduced by lessen the use of glass on buildings, replacing all single glazed 
windows with double glazing or keeping all windows and doors closed during winter.  
 Change lighting system - replacing light bulbs with compact fluorescent light bulbs 
that use 60% less energy. 
 Conserve energy -switch off fans and lights when not used. Large amount of fossil 
fuels are burnt to produce electricity. Environment can be saved from degradation by 
reducing the amount of fossil fuels to be burned. 
 Substitution of raw materials - by another purer grade raw material , which reduces 
the formation of pollutants. 
(a)  Low sulphur fuel, which has less pollution potential than high sulphur fuels 
(b) Refined liquid petrol eum gas (LPG) or liquefied natu ral gas (LNG) than 
traditional high contaminant fuels such as coal. 
 
Awareness programs (National Level) 
National Environmental Week, Malaysia 
This event is celebrated from 21th to 27th October every year, as one of the most important 
activities by the Department of Environment(DOE) in promoting the environmental 
awareness at all levels of society in Malaysia. The main objective of the celebration is to: 
 raise the level of environmental awareness among the public;  
 strengthened and enhanced cooperation between the federal government and state 
governments in environmental management; and  
 enhance cooperation between the various private agencies, non -governmental 
organizations (NGOs), individuals and others in environmental conservation.  
Various activities undertaken to promote awareness of the industries and public to be 
more caring, sensitiv e and together play a role in protecting and conserving the 
environment. 
 
Langkawi Award 
Langkawi Award was introduced by the Malaysian Government to recognize and honor 
the contributions of organizations and citizens who have made a significant contribution to 
the environment and excel, whether in management, planning, trade, research, academic, 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
58 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
publishing or fields related to the environment. The selection criteria is based on its: 
 contribution to the promotion and participation of the community  to protect the 
environment;  
 solve specific environmental problems that seriously impact both locally and abroad; 
and  
 mobilize action to solve environmental problems. 
Langkawi Award was first awarded in 1991 and since then, except in 1996, several 
Malaysian organizations and individuals who excelled in their contribution to the 
environment has been awarded . Langkawi Award winner receive d a certificate of 
appreciation signed by the King, a plaque and a sum of RM 10,000.00. 
 
Bandar Lestari –Environment Award 
Department of Environment in collaboration with the Ministry of Housing and Local 
Government as well as several other govern ment agencies have established Bandar 
Lestari - Environment Award, which was launched by the Minister of Science and 
Environment in conjunction with World Environment Day on 5 th June 2003. The objective 
of this award is to: 
 appreciate the efforts and contribution of local authorities which have integrated the 
environmental dimension into their development policies and actions;  
 foster environmental awareness with the support of local authorities; and  
 promoting innovative approaches and actions to achieve sustainable development 
(sustainable).  
The selection criteria for winning this award is based on: 
 physical environment (physical environment) - the level it takes to repair the physical 
environment such as improved water and air quality and reducing noise problems; 
 initiative of ecology (ecological initiatives) - the element of the conservation of the 
natural environment such as habitat improvement and enhancement of biological 
diversity; 
 municipal services (urban services) - Administration based on the environment 
(environmental governance) - the application of policies and procedures that promote 
transparent administration, two -way communication with the public and training an 
effective environmental management; and 
 education and awareness - implement education and communication activities that 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
59 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
enhance public awareness. 
Sekolah Lestari - Environment Award 
Sekolah Lestari - Environment Award is a joint program of Department of Environment, 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Education and the Institute for 
Environment and Development (consolidated), Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM). 
The program was officially launched by YB Dato ’ Sri Hj. Adenan Satem, Minister of 
Natural Resources and Environment and the Honourable  Dato'Sri Najib Tun Razak, 
Minister of Education on 27 th January, 2005. In conjunction with the event, the two 
documents entitled "Basic Formation Sekolah Lest ari - Environment Award" and 
"Guidelines on Implementation and Evaluation of Sekolah Lestari  - Environment 
Award"was launched to help the implementation and eval uation of this program in 
schools. 
Sekolah Lestari is  aims to establish a school environment that emphasizes an integrated 
approach to environmental protection and conservation in school management, 
curriculum, co -curriculum and greening.  The involvement o f the school work force in 
Sekolah Lestari activities give them the opportunity to practice, appreciate and cultivate 
eco-friendly features in the school environment, home, community, society and country. 
Sekolah Lestari is designed to achieve the following objectives: 
 fostering environmental values amongst the school community; 
 raise awareness amongst schools of the importance of preservation and 
conservation of the environment; 
 encourage the school to implement environmentally friendly activities effectively; 
 promote cooperation between schools and the community in the success of 
environmental education; and 
 create a school environment that is conducive to producing a school that practices a 
sustainable way of life. 
The award-winning Sekolah Lestari - Environment Award will receive a trophy and cash 
award ore RM10,000.00. 
 
Projek Wira Alam 
This is a joint project between  the Department of Environment with the Ministry of 
Education and the Malaysian Nature Society (MNS) . It was launched on 5 th June 1998. 
Objectives of the programe: 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
60 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
 provide opportunities for students to participate either individually or collectively in 
environmental activities; 
 to inculcate students to learn about the environment; 
 strengthen the students to communities in line with the concept of a caring society; 
 to produce young people who have the expertise to take effective action, responsible 
and skilled to protect the environment as pemimo in future; 
 contributions to protecting and caring for the environment. 
In this program, each student have to complete the tasks defined in the Wira Alam activity 
book at every level before they can advancing to the next level, Level 1 (Wira Diri), Level 2 
(Wira Komuniti) and Level 3 (Wira Alam).  
 
Environmental Debate 
The Department of Environment has established cooperation with the Majlis Debat 
Universiti-universiti Malaysia to organize the Environmental Debate between public higher 
education institutions in Malaysia. This program has been held since 1991. The objective 
of this debate is to: 
 increase the awareness and knowledge of environmental issues among students so 
that they will be more sensitive to environmental problems; 
 to train students as future lead ers to think and express them selves effectively and 
thoughtful; and 
 seek debate talent among students. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
61 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(3/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of         :  12 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What are texample of environmental problems that can be happened nowadays 
due to uncontrolled activities by human? 
  
2. In the workplace, what can the emploters should do to protect the environment? 
 
3. What is environmetal education? 
 
4. Name 5 types of environmental problems that mainly can be contributed by the 
industries? 
 
5. Name 6 national environmental awareness program that have been conducted by 
the government in supporting the conservation of environment? 
 
6. Explain 5 objectives of the Sekolah Lestari – Environment Awareness conducted at 
the national level for the school. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://www.climatehotmap.org/about/global-warming-causes.html 
2. IMPAK – Jabatan Alam Sekitar Malaysia 
3. http://www.doe.gov.my 
4. http://www.floodlondon.com/global-warming/ 
5. http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/causes-effects-solutions-of-air-pollution.php 
6. Perspectives in Environmental Studies, Anubha Kaushik and C.P Kaushik 
 
 