1 
 
 
 
          
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
 Z-009-4:2015  CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
 
CA05 STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
 
05.01. ADVOCATE EFFECTIVE THINKING 
05.02. COMPLY WITH EFFECTIVE ANALYSIS 
05.03. APPLY STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
05.04. APPLY BUDGETARY CONTROL PROCEDURES 
05.05. APPLY PROBLEM SOLVING TECHNIQUES 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE : PROBLEM SOLVING TECHNIQUES  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE : 
 
This information sheet is intended to describe the technique to solve a problem. The 
person who is competent in this CA shall be able to apply problem solving techniques 
in the organization with appropriate solutions. 
 
 
          
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
PENERANGAN / INFORMATION :  
 
1 Definition Of Fact and Opinion 
 1.1: A fact is a piece of information that can be strictly defined, observed and proved true.  
 
 1.2: An opinion is a statement or viewpoint that expresses a belief, value, feeling,  
  though, judgment, estimate and cannot be proved true or false.  
 
 1.3: For example, a person's age is a fact, but if someone is asked how old they  
  feel, it is impossible to prove the person's answer to be true or false. 
 
2 Relationship Principle 
 2.1: Everything in life starts and ends with relationships. Our existence starting from the 
 womb has relief on our relationships to others. So relationship are fundamental for life, 
 love and business. 
 
2.2: There are some relationship principles for life. 
        i) Build your network. A relationship must be giving and receiving. Help others with a 
           need, issue, challenge, or problem they have and build a relationship. 
 
       ii) Be generous with your time and wisdom and help others without any expectation of  
           receiving something in return . Build a reputation as a generous person who thinks  
           about others, and your network will overflow. 
 
      iii) Start a relationship by having a great conversation. We connect with people by  
           finding things in common, understanding what issues they are grappling with and  
           sharing ideas. 
 
      iv) Follow the person, not the position. Focus on developing relationships with smart,  
           interesting, motivated, ambitious people; and following them throughout their  
           careers.  
           v) Cultivate your own interests. If you want to be a person of interest, you have to  
            develop interesting characters.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  8 
      vi) Become truly distinctive at something that’s of value to others. In our personal lives,  
           we are drawn to others based on common interests, chemistry, likeability, and other  
           intangible qualities.  
 
      vii) Be enthusiastic, passionate about your work and everything else you do. 
 
     viii) Be authentic. If you’re introverted, be comfortable about it; if you’re extroverted, be 
           that way all the time. You have to develop your own, based on who you are and  
           your natural character. Whoever and whatever you are (funny, introverted,  
           cautious, reflective, and so on) be that way all the time. 
 
     ix). Be genuinely interested and caring in others. You will be more successful by being  
           interested  in others’ success than by trying to get them interested in your success.  
           If you’re not truly interested in other people, you should not be in a client-facing  
           role.  
 
       x) Give some trust to start the trust building process. Trust is the glue that holds  
           together every long-term relationship. To start the trust-building process, you  
           often have to trust others. You need to assume positive intentions in their actions.  
 
      xi) Demonstrate integrity at all times. Integrity is a state of wholeness in which you  
           act in accordance with a set of coherent values or principles. In other words, you  
           know what’s right, you’re clear about what you believe in, and you consistently  
           follow your beliefs. So integrity must be done, not seem to be done. There are four  
           key dimensions to integrity: 
           a. Honesty 
           b. Discretion 
           c. Reliability 
           d. Consistency 
 
     xii) Be seen as contributing directly to your clients’ important goals. You can exercise  
          great relationship building skills as an individual advisor. 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  8 
3  Problem Solving 
  3.1: Definition of Problem Solving 
         Problem solving is a process and skill that to be used when needing to solve  
          immediate problems in order to achieve a goal. 
  3.2: Problem solving techniques 
         i. Every one faces problems on a daily basis. Some people are good at solving them  
            without taking too much stress. However, there are some people who have  
            difficulty coping with their problems effectively and this kind of inability undermines  
            their self esteem, affects their mood and also interferes with their professional and  
            personal lives. Therefore, it is important to cope with problems in a way that it  
            helps and empowers you. Obviously problems do not go away by themselves  
            unless you take some drastic steps to overcome them. The trouble is people tend  
            to dismiss problem solving. If you learn effectively use the problem solving steps,  
            you will see how functional your life will become and you can save yourself from  
            excessive worries, anxiety, and depression. When you take the right action, your  
            problems vanished and you will be able to relax and feel relieved. It is important to  
            take actions so that you can move on with your life goals otherwise, unresolved  
            problems will continue to make you feel incompetent, worthless, and anxious. 
 
        ii. There are seven-step to solve the problem.  
            a. Identify the problem. 
            b. Explore the problem. 
            c. Set goals. 
            d. Look at Alternatives. 
            e. Select a possible solution. 
            f.  Implement a possible solution. 
            g. Evaluate 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  8 
                      
  
Figure 3 – Seven step Problem Solving Model 
 
 
           a. Identify the problem 
               When you are boggled with problems, you feel a generalized and global worry  
               about things. It is very important to pin point the source of your worry and  
               anxiety. List down your problem so that you can come up with possible  
               solutions. This is the most important stage in the problem solving strategy. Think  
               about what irritates you most and where the trouble spots are. Do not be  
               frightened due to the load of problem you are facing. Think positive and trust  
               your intuition. 
 
           b. Explore the problem 
               When you are clear about what the problem is you need to think about from  
               different angles. Analyze the problem in different ways is may help you find  
               an effective solution. Some problems are very obvious, however others are not  
               so easily identified. There are some technique to explore the problem such as  
               PEST analysis, SWOT analysis, Ishikawa analysis, PARETO analysis, Risk  
               analysis, Failures Mode and Effect analysis and After Action Review 
 
           c. Set goals 
               Once you have thought about the problem from different angles you can identify  
                your goals or what you want to achieve? Working out a goals is a vital part of  
                the problem solving process.   
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  8 
            d. Look at Alternatives  
                When you have decided what your goal/s is you need to look for possible  
                solutions. The more possible solutions will be able to discover an effective  
                solution. You can brain-storm for ideas. The aim is to collect as many alternative 
                solutions as possible because some of the best solutions may arise from  
                creative thinking during brain-storming. By taking the time to generate a range of  
                creative solutions to the problem, you'll significantly increase the best possible  
                solution, 
 
            e. Select a possible solution 
                From the list of possible solutions, sort out which are most relevant to a situation  
                and which are realistic and manageable. When you have explored the  
                consequences, you can identify the solution which is most relevant to you and is  
                likely to have the best outcomes for your situation. 
 
            f.  Implement a possible solution 
                Once you have selected a possible solution, you'll have many options to put it  
                into action. Decide what elements are needed for a realistic and practical  
                solution, and think about the criteria you'll use to choose between potential  
                solutions. You will need to have energy and motivation to do this because  
                implementing the solution may take some time and effort. You can prepare  
                yourself by planning when and how to do it.  
 
            g. Evaluate 
                Evaluating of the solution is very crucial. If the solution was successful in solving  
                a problem, then you have effectively solved your problem. If you are not happy  
                with the result, then you may choose another option from the list of  
                brain-storming solutions, which will be most likely to produce the desired result.  
                Useful techniques such as Paired Comparison Analysis, Decision Matrix  
                Analysis and Risk Analysis are available in decision making. 
 
 4. Decision Making 
     4.1 Problem solving and decision-making are important skills for organization and daily  
           life. Problem-solving often involves decision-making, and decision-making is       

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  8 
           important for management and leadership. There are processes and techniques to  
           improve decision-making and the quality of decisions.  
    
    4.2 Problem-solving and decision-making are closely linked, and each requires  
          creativity in identifying and developing options, for which the brainstorming  
          technique is useful. For group problem-solving and decision-making, or when a  
          consensus is required, workshops help.  
 
   4.3 Good decision-making requires a mixture of skills: creative development and  
         identification of options, clarity of judgement, firmness of decision, and effective  
         implementation.  
 
  4.4 In rational decision making approach, hard (quantitative) data obtained through  
        observation or mathematical (statistical) analysis or modeling is systematically  
        collected for making long-term decisions. 
 
  4.5 There are useful methods or steps for effective decision-making and problem-solving  
        process. 
        i)  Define and clarify the issue. Is the matter urgent, important or both. This can be  
            decide by analysis such as Pareto Principle analysis. 
       ii) Gather all the facts and understand their causes. 
      iii) Think about or brainstorm possible options and solutions. 
      iv) Consider and compare the 'pros and cons' of each option. For complex decisions  
           where there are several options, create a template which enables measurements  
           according to different strategic factors by SWOT, PEST or Porter analysis. 
       v) Select the best option. Avoid vagueness and weak compromises in trying to please  
           everyone. 
       vi) Explain your decision to those involved and affected, and follow up to ensure  
           proper and effective implementation.  
 
5. Rational Strategies 
   5.1 Rational is a explanation of the logical reasons or principles employed at a decision                      
        or estimate making.  
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015 M05/P(5/5) Muka Surat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  8 
   5.2 It is usually document on why a particular choice was made, how the basis of  
         its selection was developed, why and how the particular information or assumptions          
         were relied on and why the conclusion is deemed credible or realistic. 
 
 
 
          
SOALAN / QUESTION : 
 
1. What is different between fact and opinion? 
 
2. What is relationship principle for life? 
 
3. Explain briefly the step of problem solving? 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budget 
2. http://andrewsobel.com/articles/12-relationship-principles-for-life/ 
3. http://w3.unisa.edu.au/counsellingservices/balance/problem.asp 
4. http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/rationale.html#ixzz3j7xKaotp 
 