1 
 
 
 
        
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
 Z-009-4: 2015  CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
 
CA06: EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION  
           COLLABORATION 
 
NO DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
06.01. APPLY EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 
06.02. FORMULATE CONSTRUCTIVE SPEECH 
06.03. ADHERE TO EFFECTIVE PRESENTATION  
           METHODOLOGY 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(2/2) Mukasurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE : EFFECTIVE PRESENTATION METHODOLOGY  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE :  
 
This information sheet is intended to describe knowledge in preparing materials 
delivery methods so that presentation contents reach the target or audience. The 
person who is competent in this CA shall be able to know the effective presentation 
methodology so that the presentation more convincing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
 KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
 ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
 PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
 62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
 
1. Presentation Structure, Knowledge and Audience 
1.1 A presentation is a means of communication that can be adapted to various  
 speaking situations, such as talking to a group, addressing a meeting or briefing a  
 team. 
 
1.2 To be effective, step-by-step preparation and the method and means of presenting  
 the information should be carefully considered. A presentation requires a person to get 
 a message across to the listeners and will often contain a 'persuasive' element. It may,  
 for example, be a talk about the positive work of his organisation, what you could offer  
 an employer, or why you should receive additional funding for a project. 
 
1.3 In making a decision about your presentation method, you have to take into account  
 several key aspects. These include: 
          i) The facilities available to you by way of visual aids, sound systems, and lights.  
             Obviously you cannot use facilities that are not available. If you are told that you  
             will need to present without a projector, you’re going to need to decide on a  
             method that works without slides. 
         ii) The occasion.  
             A formal conference of 200 people will require a very different approach from a  
             presentation to your six-person team. And a speech at a personnel function is  
             totally different again. Consider the norms of the occasion. For example, at a  
             certain function, you are not expected to use slides or other visual aids. 
        iii) The audience and the topic.  
             If it’s a small, informal event, you will be able to use a less formal method. You  
             might, for example, choose to give your audience a one-page handout, perhaps  
             info graphic that summarizes your key points, and talk them through it. A more  
             formal event is likely to need slides. 
        iv) Your experience in giving presentations.  
             More experienced presenters will be more familiar with their own weak points, and  
             able to tailor their preparation and style to suit. However, few people are able to  
             give a presentation without notes. Even the most experienced speakers will  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  8 
            usually have at least some form of notes to jog their memory and aid their  
            presentation. 
 
         v) Your familiarity with the topic.  
             As a general rule, the more you know about it, the less you will need to prepare in  
             detail, and the more you can simply have an outline of what you want to say, with  
             some brief reminders. 
        vi) Your personal preferences.  
            Some people prefer to ‘bask it’ (or ‘wing it’) and make up their presentation on the  
            day, while others prefer detailed notes and outlines. You will need to know your  
            own abilities and decide how best to make the presentation.  When you first start  
            giving presentations you may feel more confident with more detailed notes. As you  
            become more experienced you may find that you can deliver effectively with less. 
 
2. Information Sources 
2.1 Information sources can define as information for somebody, such as, anything that        
         might inform a person about something or provide knowledge about it. Different  
         types of questions require different sources of information. Information sources may  
         be observations, people, speeches, documents, pictures, organizations, websites,  
         etc. They may be primary, secondary sources, tertiary sources and so on. 
 
  2.2 In search of the ingredients needed for presentation, you need to understand a given  
        title and source to find. At the same time recognize also the goal of the presenter  
        representing organization. Sensitive to what audience needs and where is the  
        strengthen speech to highlight. 
 
  2.3 Few tips to be known; 
        i. The Objective 
           You have been asked to speak to a group of people.  First, ask yourself 'why?'  
           What is the purpose of the presentation, what is the objective, what outcome(s) do  
           you and the audience expect?  
           It is useful to write down the reason you have been asked to present so you can  
           use this as a constant reminder while you prepare the presentation.  There are  
           many reasons for giving a presentation or talk, but never lose sight of your  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  8 
           objective as determined when you were asked and accepted the invitation. 
 
 
 
        ii. The Subject 
            The subject of what you are going to talk about comes from the objective but they  
            are not necessarily one and the same thing.  
            For example: 
a. The subject may be given to you by an inviting organisation. 
b. You may be knowledgeable in particular field. 
c. The subject may be entirely your choice within certain limitations. 
 
       iii. The Audience  
            Before preparing material for a presentation, it is worth considering your  
            prospective audience. Tailoring your talk to the audience is important and the  
            following points should be considered: 
a. The size of the group or audience expected. 
b. The age range - a talk aimed at retired people will be quite different from one 
aimed at teenagers. 
c. Gender - will the audience be predominantly male or female? 
d. Is it a captive audience or will they be there out interest? 
e. Will you be speaking in their work or leisure time? 
f. Do they know something about your subject already or will it be totally new to 
them?  Is the subject part of their work? 
g. Are you there to inform, teach, stimulate, or provoke? 
h. Can you use humour and if so what would be considered appropriate? 
 
        iv. The Place 
             It is important to have as much advance information as possible about the place  
             where you are going to speak. Ideally, try to arrange to see the venue before the  
             speaking event, as it can be of great benefit to be familiar with the surroundings.   
             It does much to quell fear if you can visualise the place while you are preparing  
             your talk.  Additionally, it would also give you the opportunity to try out your voice.   
             If at all possible, you need to know: 
a. The size of the room. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  8 
b. The seating arrangements and if they can be altered. 
c. The availability of equipment, e.g., microphone, overhead projector, flip chart, 
computer equipment. 
 
 
d. The availability of power points and if an extension lead is required for any 
equipment you intend to use. 
e. If the room has curtains or blinds. This is relevant if you intend to use visual 
aids, and so that you can ensure the correct ambiance for your presentation. 
f. The position of the light switches.  Check if you need someone to help if you 
are using audio/visual equipment and need to turn off the lights. 
g. The likelihood of outside distractions, e.g., noise from another room. 
h. The availability of parking facilities so you do not have a long walk carrying 
any equipment you might need to take. 
 
          v. If you do have a choice of when to give your presentation - consider the  
              following points: 
              a. Morning: 
                  The morning is the best time to speak because people are generally at their  
                   most alerts.  However, late morning may start to present problems as people  
                   begin to feel hungry and think about lunch. 
 
               b. Afternoon: 
                   Early afternoon is not an ideal time to make a presentations since after lunch  
                   people often feel sleepy and lethargic.  Mid afternoon is a good time, whereas  
                   at the end of the afternoon people may start to worry about getting home, the  
                   traffic or collecting children from school. 
 
               c. Evening or Weekend: 
                   Outside regular office hours, people are more likely to be present because  
                   they want to be rather than have to be there.  There is a higher likelihood of  
                   audience attention in the evening, providing of course that the presentation  
                   does not go on for too long when people may have to leave before the  
                   presentation has finished. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  8 
3. Graphic Standard Rules  
3.1 The use of the language should be identified in the presentation because writings  
      graphic should be simple yet real. The title and picture with caption plays an  
      important role in order to give an overview of the issues presented. 
 
 
      But, should only use visual aids if they are necessary to maintain interest and assist  
      comprehension in presentation. Do not use visual aids just to demonstrate  
      technological competence - doing so may compromise the main point of  
      presentation - getting your messages across clearly and concisely. 
 
3.2 If visual aids are used well they will enhance a presentation by adding impact and  
      strengthening audience involvement, yet if they are managed badly they can ruin a  
      presentation. Most visual aids will need advance preparation and should be  
      operated with efficiency. If you wish to use such aids in an unfamiliar room or  
      location, check what facilities are available in advance so that you can plan your  
      presentation accordingly. 
 
   3.3 Purpose of the graphic information. 
         a. Information graphics or info graphics are graphic visual representations of  
             information, data or knowledge intended to present information quickly and  
             clearly. They can improve cognition by utilizing graphics to enhance the human  
             visual system’s ability to see patterns and trends. Similar pursuits are information  
             visualization, data visualization, statistical graphics, information design,  
             or information architecture.  
         b. Info graphics have evolved in recent years to be for mass communication, and  
             thus are designed with fewer assumptions about the reader’s knowledge base  
             than other types of visualizations. Isotopes’ are an early example of info graphics  
             conveying information quickly and easily to the masses. 
 
      3.4 Symbols and signs 
            a. Symbols:  
                Something that represents or suggests something else. Symbols often take the  
                form of words, visual images, or gestures that are used to convey ideas and  
                beliefs. All human cultures use symbols to express the underlying structure of  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  8 
                their social systems, to represent ideal cultural characteristics, such as beauty,  
                and to ensure that the culture is passed on to new generations. Symbolic  
                relationships are learned rather than biologically or naturally determined, and  
                each culture has its own symbols. 
 
 
 
            b. Signs:  
                Something that indicates or acts as a token of a fact, condition or an action or 
                gesture intended to convey information or a command. 
 
                                 
 
Figure 1. Graphic signs. 
 
       3.5 Appropriate graphic format.  
             For the accuracy of the presentation of the text together with the visual aid in the  
             presentation, make sure that the arrangement of text and visuals performed and  
             tested in advance. Also make sure proof read visual graphic and text are done to  
             avoid caption and picture errors. Any mistakes can influence the image of the  
             presenter and his organisation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4: 2015-M06/P(2/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. How to ensure  the effective of presentation structure? 
2. How to define the right information sources for effective presentation? 
3. Explain why graphic standard rules are important in effective presentation? 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
1.  http://www.skillsyouneed.com/present/what-is-a-presentation.html#ixzz3h64l7hMD  
(date 25/07/2015) 
2. http://www.creativebloq.com/typography/what-is-typography-123652 
(date 27/07/2015) 
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symbol  
(date 27/07/2015) 
4. http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/G/graphics.html 
(date 27/07/2015) 
5. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/symbol 
(27/07/2015) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 