18 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM/  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP/ LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA07 CHANGE MANAGEMENT AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN/ ABILITY 
NO. AND STATEMENT 
 
07.01 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
OBJECTIVE  
07.02 OBSERVE CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
METHODOLOGY 
07.03 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
INITIATIVE 
07.04 ADHERE TO COACHING & MENTORING  
IMPLEMENTATION 
07.05 PERFORMANCE ORGANISATION BRANDING 
 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   17 
 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : CHANGE MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY 
 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
 
This Information Sheet will explain about the objective of change management methodology. 
Change management  methodology is system of methods needed  in 
transitioning individuals, teams, and  organizations to a desired future state.In a  project 
management context,  
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
19 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION : 
  
     
1. Appropriate Change Management Methodology 
 
1.1 In today’s dynamic business environment, organizational changes and 
methods of addressing them are prevalent as we seek to stabilize and sustain 
transformation across locations. The way businesses manage change and how 
successful they are at it, depends largely on the nature of business, the change 
and the people involved. It is also dependent on how well the organization and 
people understand the need for the change and the process involved. 
 
1.2  Applying change management activities can be instrumental in realizing 
goals for planned and unplanned changes both internally and externally. It also 
helps diagnose problems associated with the transition before they become a 
crisis. Therefore,  it is essential to first understand some of the theories and 
methodologies pertaining to change management. 
 
1.3  Managing organizational change starts with understanding how to manage 
change with a single person. Among the tools available to drive individual 
change, the ADKAR model developed by Prosci, the world leader in change 
management research and content creati on, is commonly used. ADKAR is an 
acronym for Awareness, Desire, Knowledge, Ability, and Reinforcement.  
 
1.4  In principle, to make a change successfully an individual needs:  
 
i) Awareness of the need for change  
ii) Desire to participate and support the change  
iii) Knowledge on how to change  
iv) Ability to implement required skills and behaviors  
v) Reinforcement to sustain the change.  
 
1.5  ADKAR describes successful change at the individual level and outlines the 
goals or outcomes of successful change. It is an effective tool for planning 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
20 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
change management activities, diagnosing gaps, developing corrective action, 
and supporting managers and supervisors. 
 
1.6  The theory of change defines the building blocks required to achieve long -term 
goals. There are many theories on how to conduct change. Many of these theories 
originate from leadership and change management guru, John P. Kotter. 
Nevertheless, according to Entrepreneur magazine, all process models are derived 
from the model of organizational change by Kurt P. Lewin. Another popular and 
powerful model used to understand the stages of personal transition and 
organizational change is The Change Curve, attributed to Elisabeth Kübler-Ross. 
 
1.7   Kotter's 8-Step Change Model  
 
i) Kotter introduced his eight -step change process in his 1996 book, 
‘Leading Change’. He suggests that for change to be successful, 75 
percent of a company's management needs to buy into the change, and 
he introduces an actionable eight -step process for implementing 
successful transformations. 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
21 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
Figure 1.1 : Kotter's 8-Step Change Model 
 
ii) Kotter’s steps are based on a solid foundation of communication, 
empowerment, and focus.  Following the change, it is important to 
embed new approaches so that people do not revert to old habits. 
Monitoring, feedback, and intervention are necessary for a period after 
the changes have occurred. 
 
 
1.8  Lewin's 3-Stage Model of Change 
 
i) One of the cornerstone models for understanding organizational change 
was developed in 1947 by Kurt Lewin, a physicist and social scientist. 
His model, which still holds true even today, is known as Unfreeze –
Change–Refreeze and refers to the three -stage process of change. He 
described organizational change using the analogy of the changing 
shape of a block of ice.  
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
22 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
Figure 1.2 : Lewin's 3-Stage Model of Change 
 
ii) Lewin's change model is a simple and easily understood framework for 
managing change through th ree distinct stages. It starts with creating the 
motivation to change (unfreeze) and moves through the change process by 
promoting effective communication and empowering people to embrace new 
ways of working (change). The process ends when the organization  returns 
to a sense of stability (refreeze), which is necessary for creating the 
confidence to embark on the next, inevitable change. Each of the three 
phases also proposes specific activities that address motivation, 
implementation, and adherence to organizational changes. 
 
 
1.9  The Change Curve  
 
i) The Change Curve is based on a model originally developed in the 1960s by 
Elisabeth Kübler-Ross to explain the grieving process. It is a powerful model to 
describe the stages of personal transition involved in most organizational 
changes. It helps understa nd how people will react to change, provide 
assistance for their own personal transitions, and make sure they have the 
help and support they need. Table 3 lists the behaviors and change actions at 
every stage of the change curve. 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
23 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
 
Figure 1.3 : The Change Curve 
 
  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
24 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
ii) Knowledge of the Change Curve can minimize the negative impact of the 
change and help people adapt to it more quickly. The availability of this 
information and providing the correct navigation can help accelerate change 
and increase the likelihood of success. As organizations mature, many 
develop negative patterns, processes, and habits that have led to the 
creation of an entire industry around organizational re -engineering and 
change management. There are many theories of organizational change. 
The one that will work best for an organization will depend on many things, 
including how resistant the organization is to change. 
 
 
1.10  Change Management Methodologies 
 
i) Some researchers place the failure rate of organizational change at as much as 
70 percent, an unacceptable high. Consequently, it is not surprising that leaders 
are looking for ways to reduce the risk and curtail failure. Unfortunately, many 
leaders believe that simply by using a change management methodology they 
are ‘doing’ change management.   
 
ii) A change management methodology helps a company prepare for planned and 
unplanned changes. A methodology also helps mitigate risks by creating a 
blueprint of how to proactively deal with opposition or any other problems that 
may arise during and after the implementation. The biggest risk is acceptance - 
Acceptance by employees, staff, management, and stakeholders should be the 
tomanagerost priority when initiating change.  
 
 
1.11  Prosci's Change Management Methodology  
 
i) In 2002, following their third change management benchmarking study, Prosci 
developed an organizational change management process. It was developed 
based on research with over 1600 participants over  ten years. It is the 
amalgamation of collective lessons learned by those introducing change around 
the globe. It is built in steps that a project team can complete for a particular 
change or initiative supported. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
25 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
 
Figure 1.4 : Prosci's Change Management Methodology 
 
ii) Prosci’s methodology integrates individual change management and 
organizational change management to ensure the achievement of business 
results. This link between individual change management and organizational 
change management is a key differentiator from most change management 
methodologies. 
 
 
 
2. Staff Performance Guidelines And Procedures 
 
2.1 Staffing plans 
 
 
i) Regardless of what we do in an organization, a staff is required in 
order to execute work tasks and activities. As a manager, we need 
to have an adequate staff for executing your project activities. 
 
ii) Just having the required number of staff members for our project will 
not help us to successfully execute the project activities. Th ese staff 
members selected for our project should have necessary skills to 
execute the project responsibilities as well. In addition, they should 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
26 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
have the necessary motivation and availability as well.  Therefore, 
staffing of your project should be done methodologically with a 
proper and accurate plan. 
 
2.2 Understanding the Purpose 
 
i) Before we start staffing our project, we need to understand the purpose of 
our project. First of all, we need to understand the business goals for the 
project and other related objectives. Without we being clear about the end 
results, we may not be able to staff the best resources for our project. 
 
ii) Spend some time brainstorming about our project purpose and then try to 
understand the related staffing requirements. Understand the different 
skills required for project execution, in order to understand what kind of 
staff we want. 
 
2.3 Be Precise 
 
i) Be precise when we prepare our staffing management plan. Make our 
staffing plan in black and white. Do not include things just to make the 
people happ y. Always include the truth in our plan in a bold way. 
Whenever required, emphasize the roles and responsibilities of the staff 
and organizational policies as well. The workforce should be disciplined in 
order to execute a project successfully. Therefore, we need to include 
discipline requirements to the staffing plan as well. 
 
2.4 Use a Good Template 
 
i) When it comes to articulating the plan, we need to use a good template 
for that. First of all, there are chances that we can find a suitable one from 
our organization itself. Talk to our peers and see whether there are 
templates that they hav e used in the past. In case if our organization has 
a knowledge management system, sear ch for a template there.  Once we 
get a good template, articulate everything in simple language. The 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
27 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
audience of the plan is the management and the staff. Therefore, 
articulation should be clear and simple. 
 
2.5 Making the Connection 
 
i) Connecting with our staff is the key. By properly connecting, we can 
measure them for their skills and attitude.  Interviewing the staff members 
is the best way to properly engaging with them. By doing this, we can 
measure their skills and we can see whether they are suita ble for your 
project requirements. For interviews, we can come up with an interview 
schedule and a set of critical questions we may want to ask. In case there 
are things you cannot uncover through interviews, ask assistance from 
human resource. 
 
2.6 Training 
 
i) Before we start staffing for the project, we need to know what skills 
required for our project. This way, we can measure the skills of our 
potential staff during the interviews. In most instances, we will not find all 
the staff members with desir ed skills.  In such cases, we will have to 
request for trainings from the training department. Get applicable staff 
members trained on required skills in advance to the project 
commencement. 
 
2.7 Rewards and Consequences 
 
i) Staffing management plan should be crystal clear about the staff rewards 
as well as the consequences. The plan should illustrate the rewards in 
detail and how a staff member or the entire staff becomes eligible for 
rewards. As an example, early delivery of projects is rewarded by paying a 
bonus to the staff members, who are involved in the project. This is one of 
the best ways to keep the staff motivation and focused on the project 
activities. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
28 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
2.8 Considerations 
 
i) In addition to the above areas, there can be additional considerations . 
One might be the duration of our staffing requirement. It's very rare that a 
project will require all the staff during the entire project life cycle.  Usually, 
the staffing requirement varies during different phases of the project. 
Refer to the following diagram in order to identify the staff variation. 
 
ii) Usually, during the initial phases of the project, the project requires only a 
limited number of staff members. When it comes to develo managerent or 
construction, it may need a lot. Again, when it reaches the end, it will 
require a less number of staff. 
 
iii) Staffing management plan for a project plays a critical role in project 
management. Since resources are the most critical factor for executing 
the project activities, you should be clear about your staffing 
requirements. Once you know what you want, derive the plan to address 
the same. 
 
 
 
3. Possible Risk Factors 
 
 
3.1 The objective of the risk, issue and change management component is to 
give the manager the necessary, stages or objectives. 
 
3.2 In this section both the knowledge and instruments to be able to face any 
events that might have an impact on the project’s products, resources risk 
management and the issue and change management procedures will be defined 
as well as the categorisations th at can be used to facilitate the identification, 
assessment and resolution of uncertain or un -forecasted events. These activities 
are the manager’s responsibility and should be performed in a proactive way. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
29 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
3.3 The manager should actively monitor the project context and environment to 
identify any possible threat or opportunity and to deal with any problem that may have 
an impact on project progress. Additionally the manager must plan how these activities 
will be performed during the project as well as  documenting any standards and policies 
to be applied. 
 
3.4 The procedures, tools, techniques and responsibilities involved in the risk, issue & 
change management activities will be documented in the risk and issue management 
plan created during the project initiation process. 
 
3.5 Both the risk and issue management procedures are a manager’s responsibility, 
however, it is extremely important for their correct application, that the correct people are 
involved during the various steps of the procedure to hel p the manager with decision 
making activities, impact and probability assessments and overall monitoring of the effect 
of the events on the project objectives to ensure project success. 
 
4.  Risk Management 
 
4.1 A risk represents an uncertain event that could  have an effect on the 
project objectives. This uncertainty is measured in terms of the probability of the 
risk and the possible impact the threat or opportunity might have on the project. The 
effect of the event on the project could be either beneficial o r damaging and for this 
reason when approaching risk management , which covers both threats and 
opportunities, the manager should be aware of the differences between threat 
management and opportunity management. 
 
4.2 Risks need to be identified, assessed, and controlled taking into account the 
nature of the risk itself, the project context and complexity, and the objective at risk; 
furthermore, adequate responses need to be planned and where the case might 
require it impleme nted. The manager is assisted in carrying out these steps by an 
appropriate cross-section of project stakeholders. 
 
4.3 Before proceeding with any risk management activity he manager should 
be aware of the acceptable risk exposure for the project as stated  by the Corporate 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
30 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
or Programme Organisation as this knowledge will provide the basis for any impact 
analysis that will be performed. 
 
4.4 This level can vary from project to project and is subject to external 
influences such as legislations, commercial fac tors, policy, socio -economic 
considerations or stakeholder involvement -preferences. Since this attitude towards 
risk taking can be strongly related to subjective preferences the manager should be 
prepared to review the situation at regular intervals, to ma ke sure the risk 
management activities he is performing are still in line with the objectives of the 
project. 
 
i) Identify 
 
a) Risks need to be identified and recorded in the risk log. All 
stakeholders, Team Managers and people involved in the 
project have the responsibility of informing the manager of 
any Risks which may have an impact on the project’s 
objectives. 
 
b) Before identifying any risks, the manager leads on the 
identification of the context of the objectives at risk. The 
context may be the whole project  to identify high -level risks, 
with a focus on the project plan and interdependencies 
between stages. If the context is the creation of a stage plan 
then particular attention should be paid to those risks likely to 
impact the stage being prepared and the r elevant products 
and objectives. 
 
c) Once the context has been identified the manager should 
proceed to identify the known sources for risks. For example 
the knowledge of an imminent increase in the tax rate from 
the national bank might help us identify finan cial risks which 
we might have not considered. The risk identification step 
results in a good description of a risk including a description 
of its source and impact. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
31 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
ii) Assess 
 
a) Once a Risk has been identified the manager should seek the support of 
appropriate people, stakeholders, project board members in order to 
ascertain what the probability (the likelihood of the event occurring) and 
impact (effect of the event on the project’s objectives) of the event will be 
for the project. This includes an impact anal ysis which takes into 
consideration all the objectives that might suffer from the occurrence of a 
risk, paying particular attention to the impact the risk will have on the 
Business Case and the Plans. 
 
b) Furthermore the manager should also consider the Proxi mity value of the 
risk expressed in temporal terms from the moment the event is identified 
until the moment in which it will no longer have an impact on the project’s 
objectives and/or benefits (typical proximity categories would be 
“imminent” “short term” “ long term” “post project). 
 
c) Albeit a manager responsibility, Risk Assessment is performed by the 
manager in collaboration with the relevant stakeholders who might be 
called to make decisions regarding plans to respond to risks or who might 
have the auth ority to decide what king of priority risks with a specific 
strategic, political, socio-economical 
 
iii) Control 
 
a) Once the probability impact and proximity for a risk have been assessed 
the manager would work with the stakeholders to plan suitable 
responses to manage the risk. Actions taken to manage a risk, e.g. 
actions to reduce the likelihood of it occurring, can give rise to further 
risks which could impact on the project. 
 
b) The risk must be kept under control and reviewed regularly to ascertain 
the continued  validity and success of the planned response or else to 
plan a new action. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
32 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
 
iv) Respond 
 
a) Responses to risks are of two types: Proactive responses (implemented 
regardless of the risk occurring or not and often aimed at avoiding or 
reducing the chance of it eve r occurring) and Reactive responses 
(implemented once the risk has occurred). 
 
b) Activities to respond to a risk event must be assessed for their own 
impact on the project as they may give rise to further risks such as 
additional costs for the project (some projects may provide for this 
instance and allow for a risk budget to be added to the project original 
budget). To facilitate the selection and the assessment of a response 
impact the manager is encouraged to categorise the responses as 
follows: 
 
 Threat Responses 
 
 Prevent: Eliminates the risk completely 
 Mitigate: Reduces the Impact and/or probability of the risk occurring 
 Transfer: Transfers the financial impact of the risk on a third party 
 Contingency: Provide for an alternative should the risk materialise 
 Accept: No response will be implemented 
 
 Opportunity Responses 
 
 Exploit: Take advantage of the opportunity 
 Improve: Increase the likelihood of the opportunity occurring 
 Reject: The opportunity will be discarded. 
  
c) The manager might not have the technical knowledge or skill to manage 
all the possible risks in a project particularly where the risk is related to 
technical aspects of the development work.  
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
33 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
v)  Funding 
 
a) The main purpose of conventional business case has always been to 
obtain funding approval for the financial spend. However, today it is 
necessary to have comprehensive and robust business case in order to 
obtain funding. A benefit realization plan has to be developed to ensure the 
commitment from managers to achieve the intended invesment ben efits, 
and also the basis of review of proposed ben efit plan when the invesment 
is complete. John, Elizabeth & Joe (2007) developed the 6 steps approach 
to building more rigorous and robust business cases as follow:- 
 
a. Step 1 : Identify business driver and invesment objectives 
b. Step 2 : Identify benefits, measures and owners 
c. Step 3 : Structure the benefits 
d. Step 4 : Identify organizational changes enabling benefits 
e. Step 5 : Determine the explicit value of each benefit 
f. Step 6 : Identify costs and risks. 
 
b) It was concluded that following the above steps for business case is not 
only a way of obtaining funding, it also has other purposes: showing how 
the benefits depend on business changes as well as technology, gaining 
commitment to achieving the benefits and enavling the success of the 
investment to be judged objectively. 
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
34 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  17 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
 
1. How the manager in the organization manage to change the management successfully? 
 
2. What is Lewin's 3-Stage Model of Change? 
 
3. What is Change Curve? 
 
4. What is Prosci's Change Management Methodology? 
 
5. Why do we need staffing plans? 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. http://www.tcs.com/SiteCollectionDocuments/White%20Papers/EntSol-Whitepaper-
Change-Management-Theories-Methodologies-0213-1.pdf 1 August 2015, 10.01pm 
2. http://www.tutorialspoint.com/management_concepts/staffing_management_plan.htm            
1 August 2015, 10.49pm 
3. http://www.changefirst.com/sites/default/files/Knowledge%20Centre/Whitepapers/whit
e_paper_-_our_change_management_methodology.pdf 1 August 2015, 10.58pm 
4. http://www.umsl.edu/~sauterv/analysis/2006_RM_Guide__4_Aug_06Final.doc  3 
August 2015, 11.56pm 
5. http://manager4esd.eu/the-method/components-3/risk-issue-and-change-movement/                     
3 August 2015, 12.56pm 