1 
 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE AND 
NAME 
 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
 
CA03 RELATIONSHIP  MANAGEMENT  CAPABILITY 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT  
03.01  PROMOTE GOOD NETWORKING. 
03.02  ENHANCE INTERPERSONAL CONFLICT 
RESOLUTION. 
03.03  PROMOTE EMPATHY. 
03.04  PROVIDE MOTIVATION. 
03.05  DEMONSTRATE INITIATIVE BEHAVIOUR. 
03.06  ADHERE TO CONTINUOUS EFFECTIVE LEARNING. 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Mukasurat / Page : 1 
Drpd / of                : 22 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE :  ADHERE TO CONTINUOUS EFFECTIVE LEARNING 
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE : 
This Information Sheet is tended to describe the requirements in adhering to 
continuous effective learning. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able 
to effectively utilize management relationship capabilities. 
 
 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
  KERTAS PENERANGAN  
  (INFORMATION SHEET) 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
1. TRAINING NEEDS ANALYSIS 
 
1.1   Conducting a training needs analysis / assessment is an essential first step 
in the planning of an effective training programme . A training needs analysis 
usually focuses on current and desired skills, knowledge and attitudes of the 
trainees (Figure 1 .1). However, before specifying the training needs on an 
individual and organization level it may be necessary to carry out broader initial 
information gathering on the capacities of the organization and its environment. 
Analyzing the current capacities, strengths, and weaknesses of each, the needs 
analysis is able to provide a solid base of information which can direct the focus 
of the training needs analysis. It is common to focus only on the weaknesses and 
gaps in capacity. However, by also identifying strengths and opportunities of the 
organization, its employees, and environment, a more informed decision can be 
made on how training can strengthen capacity or  if other approaches would be 
more effective. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.1: Training Need Analysis. 
 
1.2   There are many approaches to assessing the capacity of an  organization 
within its context. These approaches may in clude specific analysiss, such as the 
Needs Analysis, Gap Analysis and Broad Capa city Analysis which have been 
outlined. Regardless of which approach is chosen, it is crucial that it is applied 
with flexibility towards the economical, cultural, political and social context. There 
What skills does the 
organisation need to 
have in future? 
Required to meet the 
organisation  
objectives? 
What courses are 
available to close 
training gaps 
What are current 
capabilities of 
employees? 
Training Needs 
Analysis 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
is no single method for capacity analysis that can be followed strictly step by step, 
without adaptation to the specific situation. 
 
1.3   Training is often seen as the s olution to all capacity problems  even though 
there are many situations training alone cannot be improved. Hence, the first 
priority of a needs analysis should be conducting some initial information 
gathering which is used to determine whether training is an appropriate approach; 
preventing investments into trainings that will not help the organization. When 
training is decided upon as the best way to develop capacity, the specification of 
training needs is essential for identifying who should be trained, what the focus of 
the training should be, and how to deliver the training. The trainer then uses this 
information to develop a training programme that is relevant both to the individual 
participants and their organizations. An understanding of the individual and 
organizational constraints and capabilities enables the trainer to devise practical 
steps to get the trainee from their current state to the desired post -training state. 
By identifying these constraints, capabilities, and potential enhancers and barriers 
to the transfer of learning in the beginning, a training design and delivery method 
to maximize the effect of the training can be developed. 
 
2. TRAINING NEEDS ANALYSIS PROCESS 
2.1   All training activities should be initiated by a demand, which for example can 
be problems or potential opportunities identified by an organization or individuals 
within an organization. Demand can also be triggered by issues expressed by 
politicians or beneficiaries of the organization’s services. Training needs analysis 
has to be a flexible process but a general guidance is to start with a broad 
analysis that gradually becomes more specific.  
2.2   Figure 2.1 shows the different steps of analysis described in the following 
sections. Some of the steps can be carried out in parallel; however, it is crucial to 
determine if, and to what extent, training can contribute to achieving the desired 
capacity ( step 6 ) before specifying the training needs ( step 7 ). Thr oughout the 
analysis process data has to be collected and analyzed. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. COLLECTING AND ANALYSING  
3.1  Information  has to be collected and analyzed throughout the 
analysis/assessment. First, the initial information gathering focuses on identifying 
current and desired capacity usually in a broader organizational perspective. 
Later, the specific training needs are analysed. There are a range of methods 
available for data colle ction and analysis . What methods to choose depends on 
the stage of the analysis, what type of data is to be collected, and the available 
resources both within the organization studied and the institute conducting the 
analysis. Most likely a mix ture of meth ods and sources of information will be 
required. 
 
3.2   When collecting data, there are many possible sources such as internal 
documentation (for example previous analysiss or annual reports), media, 
partners, beneficiaries and employees (Figure 3 .2). To maximize the accuracy of 
the analysis, it is recommended to use several of these options as they all provide 
different perspectives on the work of the organization. Internally, it is important to 
Figure 2.1 : The training needs analysis process. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
look at different levels of the organization, as manag ers and their staff may not 
agree on what the needs are. In addition, units and individuals that are high 
performing, as well as those with performance problems should be studied. It is 
common to only focus on the parts of the organization where capacity i s lacking, 
but individuals and units with high capacity can provide useful information on what 
specific capacity is contributing to their performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 Assessing the needs of an organization inevitably means consulting 
people for information, which is a skill in itself. The main methods for studying 
people’s opinions, skills, attitudes and behaviours  are interviews, observations, 
questionnaires (the main approaches are shown in Figure 3.3 ), surveys, and 
customer comment cards. 
i)   Interviews can be carried out individually or in groups and be structured 
with pre-determined questions, or unstructured to discuss a topic more 
freely. Interviewing different people within an organization is a relatively 
quick way of getting an overview of for exam ple a problem situation or 
the current capacity of the organization. 
Figure 3.2: Possible sources for data collection. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
ii)  Group interviews  gather a number of people to discuss a pre -
determined topic. If carried out successfully, the method results in 
answers built on many people’s opinions, which is sui table for attaining 
an overview of the issues and the context. 
iii)  Observations are useful for understanding the work of the organization, 
such as through the study of behaviours; particularly regarding technical 
skills. It is often difficult to describe  how a task is performed and 
observations can help in identifying people’s actual behaviours. 
However, observations only give information on what is done, but it does 
not explain why it is done that way. To better understand the situation it 
is therefore r ecommended to combine observations with other data 
collection methods. 
iv)   Questionnaires are a time efficient way of obtaining quantitative data and 
the method is particularly useful when the respondents are geographically 
wide spread. Questionnaires ar e often carried out to validate information 
from interviews or observations and to collect quantitative data on 
attitudes or knowledge of trainees, for example to determine how many 
employees have knowledge on a specific topic. 
v)   Surveys are used to focus on specific areas of performance deficiency. 
Surveys can be administered either by management or an outside 
professional. The surveys consist of a written questionnaire that 
employees answer on an anonymous basis which will allow them to 
answer freel y and be truthful with their answers. The questions on the 
survey should be highly oriented toward the specific tasks, responsibilities 
and needs of the organization and its employees. 
 
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vi)  Customer comment cards  serve as a major source of information as to 
what the deficiencies may be. They often indicate what specific areas 
need improvement and why. Be sure that each question on the customer 
comment card is di rected toward a specific service already offered in 
order to determine its effectiveness. 
3.4 To transfer the collected data into valuable information the data has to 
be analyzed. Some data collection methods, such as video -recorded 
observations, require more time to analyze than to conduct, which has to be taken 
into account when planning the analysis and budgeting. 
3.5 KJ Analysis  is a method for analyzing qualitative data from many 
different sources and identifying the key points without losing the holistic 
perspective. Important pieces of information from interviews, questionnaires, 
observations or previous analyses are written on for example post -it notes and 
sorted according to how they relate to each other. 
3.6 To facilitate the analysis of quantitative data the results can be compiled 
in a table format. Most online survey tools automatically do this. It is helpful to 
visualize the data in graphs or diagrams, both to better understand the information 
Figure 3.3: Strengths and challenges of different data collection methods. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
and to be ab le to present clear and convincing results to the client and other 
involved stakeholders, such as funders. 
4. BRIDGING THE ANALYSISAND EVALUATION THROUGH LEARNING 
OBJECTIVES 
4.1 What are Learning Objectives? When data has been collected and 
analyzed, it is import ant to establish learning objectives before moving on to 
training design. Learning objectives clearly define what the goal of the training is. 
They define what it is that the trainees are expected to learn throughout the 
training, and what the trainees wil l be able to achieve post -training that they could 
not before. The learning objectives usually refer to increased knowledge, 
improved skills or changed attitudes, and may reflect one or a combination of 
these.  
4.2 Knowledge objectives refer to learning new co ncepts, rules, principles, 
and strategies, such as concepts for urban planning or land readjustment 
strategies.  
4.3 Skill objectives can be technical, mental or social. Technical skills 
include constructing a road or learning how to use a computerized reporti ng 
system. Problem solving and decision making are examples of mental skills, while 
leadership and communication are examples of social skills.  
4.4 Attitude objectives refer to the way the trainees perceive and respond 
emotionally, physically, verbally and intellectually to others.  
4.5 During the training design, the learning objectives will guide the process 
and make sure that all activities are contributing to learning that is relevant to the 
trainees. The learning objectives are also crucial when delivering an d evaluating 
the training. By comparing the outcomes of the training with the learning 
objectives it can be determined whether or not the training was successful. 
4.6 Writing Effective Learning Objectives describe the utmost importance 
in conjunction with the client. They are a significant stakeholder in the training as 
they are the ones that must enable and support the trainees upon the conclusion 
of the training, to adopt the learning into the workplace. Thus, the objective must 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
have the client’s full support ; specifically of those within management. To ensure 
that the trainees, their managers and the training institution all are aware of and 
agree on the objectives a learning contract and a performance contract may be 
helpful. The learning contract is a simpl e document, drawn up by the employee 
being trained and the trainee’s manager. It includes a signed statement by each 
person that describes certain behaviours they commit themselves to in regard to 
the forthcoming training. A performance contract is a similar document, but signed 
by the trainee and the trainer. 
 
Figure 4.6 : The learning objectives are keys in all stages of the training process following the 
analysis. 
 
 
4.7  The best learning objectives are clear and can easily be determined whether 
or not they have been met. This information sheet recommends that the objectives 
follow the SMART pattern:  
i) Specific  
ii) Measurable  
iii) Appropriate (in terms of culture: social, economic, political, etc.)  
iv) Realistic (size, scope, etc.)  
v) Time framed  
4.8  Having clear objectives will enable the trainer, trainees and their workplace to 
know whether or not the training was successful in achieving the objectives. 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  10 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
4.9 Objectives in effective training are not about how many people or who 
attended the training. Rather, they are specifically related to the material the 
trainees are being taught; meeting the overall purpose which is to develop their 
capacity to be able to accomplish their tasks in a more effective way. Having a 
specific objective will not only guide the direction of the training design, but it will 
also provide valuable criteria for the evaluation. 
4.10 Learning and Behavioural Change  defined a clear and agreed upon 
understanding of learning objectives between the training institution and client will 
enable the training institution to develop a training programme that effectively 
focuses on achieving the objectives within the client’s context. The training will be 
designed specifically for the trainees to clearly understand the concepts and their 
application, as well as to support them in changing behaviours necessary to 
increased job performance. 
4.11 Translating the Learning Objectives  into Training Design  is 
specifically designed to meet the learning objectives. It may be useful to 
understand training in the perspective of a Results Chain. This process ensures 
that the trainer has a clear understanding of what each training activity will res ult 
in. Each effort or activity on behalf to the trainer should lead to the trainees 
learning a specific skill which will help them reach their ultimate learning objective. 
Remember to ask the simple questions when planning a training program. What 
will trainees learn from each element of training and how will it help them achieve 
the learning objectives? Is spending 15 minutes on a certain diagram necessary? 
Will it result in helping the trainees meet the learning objectives? Is there a better 
way of transferring this knowledge? The trainees will have different learning styles 
so using various pedagogical methods is important to ensure all trainees have the 
opportunity to fully grasp the concepts and benefit from the training.  
4.12   Learning objectives ar e most likely to be met when the trainers follow -up 
and monitor the trainees as they implement their learning. Furthermore, trainers 
should be continuously improving their own knowledge by conducting evaluation 
and sharing the lessons learned with co -workers and colleagues. Many practical 
tools exist to ensure that follow -up, monitoring and evaluation are conducted 
effectively. Using a variety of tools is helpful. It ensures there is a holistic view or 
diverse perspectives consulted about the learning objec tives as they are 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  11 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
implemented and followed -up on. Using various tools also aids in understanding 
and maximizing the effects of the training. Consider using tools such as the 
Follow-Up Plan, Five “W” Interview or Learning Improvement Plan. 
 
5. TRAINING OUTCOME EVALUATION 
5.1 Proving the Value of Training shows without an evaluation or 
understanding of the result of the training it is impossible to determine whether or 
not the investment in the training programme  was successful. Never before has 
knowing the value of an investment been more important than at this time of 
current financial crisis, which is increasing the global competition for investments. 
Therefore organizations, including training institutions and beneficiaries of training, 
must be increasingly accountable for every dollar. Training evaluations, proving 
the final outcome of the training investment, are more crucial than ever before.  
5.2 Through a training outcome evaluation the training institution can prove 
the effectiveness of its services; that the institute delivers training programmes 
that improve the performance of the participants and their organizations. In the 
same way evaluation s are critical to the organization investing in training, the 
client, to prove they are not wasting resources on activities which do not lead to 
positive results. The evaluation also provides important feedback that can improve 
future training cycles of both the training institution and the client. By learning from 
successes and mistakes of previous training experiences the training 
effectiveness can continuously improve. 
5.3 Levels of Evaluation  describe that e valuations can be carried out on 
different levels: evaluating training events and participants’ immediate reactions, 
evaluating participants’ learning, evaluating job performance outcomes, and 
evaluating organizational performance and change  (Figure 6) . These levels are 
directly related to Donald Kirkpatr ick’s “hierarchy of learning”, which describes 
how the result of each level depends on the previous levels.  
5.4 It is common to evaluate the participants’ reactions in the end of an 
event, but the other levels are unfortunately not as often considered. Compar ed to 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
12 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  12 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
evaluating participant reactions it is harder to evaluate learning, job performance 
and organizational performance. However, only evaluating the participants’ 
reactions in the end of the event does not pr ovide the training institution nor the 
client, with sufficient information about the results. The higher levels have to be 
studied to see if learning has occurred and whether or not it has been transferred 
to the workplace. Only then it is possible to know if the training has had the 
desired outcome o n the trainees, their job performance, and the organizational 
performance, and ultimately if the training investment has paid off.  
5.5 To evaluate all four levels is particularly important for extensive training 
programmes and for completely new training prog rammes that have not been 
delivered before. For all training programmes the first two levels, participant 
reaction and learning, should be evaluated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.6 Meeting the Challenges of Evaluations  explains the overall scenario 
of a more challenging situation to evaluate participants’ learning, their job 
performance, and organizational outcomes, especially because there may be a 
lack of interest from many of the stakeholders to engage in evaluations after the 
Figure 5.5 : Four levels of evaluation. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  13 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
event. Reasons include evaluations being perceived as too costly or as taking too 
much time from the people involved. Despite all the benefits to evaluations, 
sometimes the cost of an effective evaluation does outweigh the cost of the 
training programme. If t he training participants are from different organizations or 
geographical regions it could also be difficult to keep contact with all of them once 
the training event is over. Another barrier to conducting evaluations is that they 
often do not fit within th e time frame of typical short project cycles. It may be a 
relatively long time after the training event before any substantive result on a job 
performance level can be seen. Furthermore, some people find it impossible to 
isolate the effect of the training programme on the trainees’ job performance from 
other factors within the organization. Lastly, some training activities are political in 
nature and when the primary interest is a visible activity training evaluations may 
be of low priority.  
5.7 These challenges are important to be aware of and should be taken into 
consideration at the planning stage of a training programme in order to be able to 
respond effectively. This can be done by including evaluation in the training 
programmes’ budget and time plan, deci ding on a suitable extent of evaluation, 
and informing the client and other stakeholders about the benefits of investing in a 
training outcome evaluation. 
 
 
 
6. MANAGING THE EVALUATION PROCESS 
 
6.1 The training outcome evaluation has its starting point in the training 
needs analysis/analysis and the learning objectives. It is planned in parallel with 
the design and delivery of the training and carried out both during training ev ents 
and post -training. Figure 6.1  illustrates the different stages of the evaluation 
process and how they contribute to proving the results of training and collecting 
“lessons learned” to improve future training programmes.  
6.2 While comprehensive evaluations are useful, it is important not make the 
process too complicated, time consuming and costly. Training outcome evaluation 
is a management tool and should be driven by the need to provide enough 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  14 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
information for the client to make good decisions about future training 
investments, and for the training institution to continuously improve their training 
programmes. However, only focusing on the training intervention itself, without 
noting if learning has occurred and been transferred to the workplace, will not 
provide enough information for future improvements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.1: The training outcome evaluation process. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
15 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  15 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
6.3 In mobilizing r esources, evaluations are an integral part of the training 
programme and the resources for training outcome evaluations should be 
allocated already when setting up the training budget. If evaluation resources are 
not mobilized by the time the training is complete there are less opportunities to 
find funding in time to cond uct an effective evaluation. When setting up the 
training budget it may be necessary to negotiate with funders, making the value of 
investing in evaluations explicit, to convince them to include funds for post -training 
evaluations. Re -prioritizing activiti es can also be considered to make funds 
available for evaluation. Less interventions or fewer participants, but a good 
follow-up and evaluation, is likely to have greater impact than carrying out many 
interventions that are never evaluated.  
6.4 Resource mobil ization might work slightly different for those training 
institutions which only conduct evaluations. However, it is equally important to be 
able to convince potential funders of the importance of evaluations. Previously 
conducted evaluations can be used t o prove the value of evaluations, as well as 
the value and quality of the training institution’s training programmes, and 
consequently making resource mobilization easier.  
6.5 The most common sources for funding of training programmes are the 
training institution itself, the client, the national government, and various types of 
international agencies. It is wise to not rely solely on one source of funding but to 
work with multiple sources. There are different benefits of evaluations to the 
different types of f unders, and the specific benefits are useful to stress in the 
negotiations for funding.  
6.6 Training institutions should invest in evaluations to prove the 
effectiveness of their training programmes and to learn from the process in order 
to improve future tra ining activities. Proof of what learning and performance 
change the training results in is valuable to promote the institute’s training 
programmes, especially when mobilizing resources.  
6.7 The client benefits from evaluations by gaining knowledge of whether or 
not their training investments paid off, and why it did or did not. By evaluating the 
training the client can make better informed decisions on future training 
investments. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
16 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  16 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
6.8 National governments often provide financial support for training of 
local gover nments. Evaluations are an opportunity to be accountable to the tax 
payers by proving that their money is invested wisely in activities which have a 
positive effect on the performance of local authorities and are likely to improve the 
services provided to citizens. In addition, the national government can improve the 
overall training effectiveness of the country by making sure that the trainings they 
support are evaluated and that the lessons learned are documented and shared. 
6.9 A training outcome evaluation requires engagement from several 
stakeholders and ideally they should all be represented in the evaluation team  
(Figure 6.9). At all times an internal evaluation has to be conducted by members 
of the training institution. This should include, but not exclusively, the trainer or 
training facilitator.  
6.10 While it is important for the training institution and particular trainer to 
evaluate their own work, it is also advisable to use external evaluators. This 
means someone who was not directly involved in the training, in the organization 
of the training institution or client, or in the organization who funded the training. 
An external evaluator is less likely to be biased by personal interests, which adds 
credibility to the outcome evaluation. It also increases the likelihood of accurately 
identified results, which is crucial for the evaluation to be of value.  
6.11 Training institutions u sually have access to a large network. Draw upon 
this when forming the evaluation team. It may be advisable to include peers, 
technical experts, or civil society in the evaluation team. Consider including an 
internal member of the training institution, or trainee, if possible. Often a mixed 
team comprised of individuals from various related fields, will provide useful 
insights from their mix of different strengths, perspectives, vested interests and 
motivations. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
17 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  17 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
Figure 6.9 : The evaluation team. 
 
 
6.12 How a bout consideration of Training outcome evalution versus 
costs? Before conducting a training outcome evaluation, potential barriers should 
be considered and the benefits of the evaluation weighed against the costs. There 
may be cases where lack of engagemen t from the stakeholders would impede the 
evaluation or make the results less useful. In some situations it may be necessary 
to stress the value of evaluations to the client or other stakeholders, before 
conducting the evaluation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
18 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  18 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While this information sheet suggests that evaluations should be built into all 
training programmes, there are some situations where conducting an evaluatio n 
may not make sense as the costs simply outweigh the benefits. The decision to 
not conduct an evaluation should be consciously made and the reasons well 
understood by the training institution and client. In Figure 9 is a checklist on what 
needs to be in p lace before conducting a training outcome evaluation. This is 
useful in supporting the decision on whether or not to proceed. 
 
7. THE COMPARISON BETWEEN THE LEARNING CYCLE  AND TRAINING 
CYCLE 
7.1  When training is considered  to be an effective approach to the identified 
problem adequate analysis, design, delivery,  follow-up and evaluation of the 
training are all crucial to ensure positive outcomes. These are the five basic steps 
of the training cycle (Figure 7.1). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.12 : Checklist to support decision on whether or not to conduct a training outcome evaluation. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
19 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  19 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2  During the analysis the co ntext and needs of the trainees and t heir 
organization are studied and objectives for th e training are set according to what 
the organization wishes to achieve. The design of the tra ining builds on the 
findings of the analysis and the defined learning objectives. Training delivery is the 
conduct of t raining, usually in the form of one or more events. Follow -up is 
conducted to monitor and assist trainees post-training as they implement what they 
have learned. Finally, evaluati on is carried out to see if the objectives of the 
training have been met and how the training process can be improved. 
 
7.3   However, for the training to posit ively affect the trainee’s work another 
dimension has to be added to the training proces s. The application of learning to 
the workplace is usually referred  to as transfer of learning , and each step of the 
training rocess should be carried out in a way that supports transfer of learning. 
This includes,  for exa mple, identification of potential barriers and enhancers  to 
transfer of learning within the organization during t he analysis, addressing these 
barriers and enhancers in th e design, building in follow -up activities, keeping the 
trainees motivated during the delivery, and involving the trainees’ managers in the 
process. 
 
Figure 7.1 : The training cycle. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
20 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  20 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
7.4   The traditional linear or cycli c process of training has to be applied with 
flexibility. It mig ht be necessary to loop back to the design phase during the  
delivery to adapt the training  to changed circumstances, fo llow-up activities may 
run in parallel with the evaluation, and the evaluation should have its starting point 
already in the analysis. 
 
8. LEARNING FROM THE TRAINING OUTCOME EVALUATION 
8.1   To ensure that all potential lessons ar e learned and applied, training 
institutions must continuously apply themselves to learning and self-reflection. The 
need to continuously learn is of critical importance as training institutions must 
always be developing in order to remain on the cutting e dge of theory and 
practice.  
8.2   A popular tool for reflection and learning is the Action Learning Cycle  (Figure 
8.2), which can be adapted and applied to many different contexts. Using the 
basic questions in the diagram below, the action learning cycle can be used as a 
quick review of how the training programme, training needs analysis or training 
outcome evaluation wer e delivered, either as a whole or individually. With more 
time allowed and questions adapted to reflect specific considerations, the action 
learning cycle can be used for simple as well as complex situations. It can also be 
used for broad or deep analytica l analysiss of training programmes’ multi -
dimensional operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
21 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  21 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
 
 
9.   TERMINOLOGY 
Capacity Development: The process whereby people, organizations and society as a 
whole unleash, strengthen, create, adapt, and maintain capacity over time.  
Capacity Analysis: A capacity analysis identifies capacity on three levels; individual, 
organizational and enabling envi ronment. It is a more comprehensive approach than 
training needs analysis as it also looks at the interrelation between each of these 
levels of capacity.  
Learning: Learning is directly related to increased knowledge and understanding; 
improved technical, mental or social skills; or changes in attitudes or values.  
Learning Objective: Learning objectives clearly define what the goal of the training 
is: what the trainees are expected to learn from the training and be able to achieve 
after the training.  
Outcomes: The likely or achieved short -term and medium -term effects of an 
intervention’s outputs.  
Outputs: The products, capital goods and services which result from a development 
intervention; may also include changes resulting from the intervention which ar e 
relevant to the achievement of outcomes.  
Training: The passing of knowledge, skills or attitudes from one party or individual to 
another.  
Training Needs Analysis: A training needs analysis looks specifically at the skills, 
knowledge and attitudes of po tential trainees. It uses this information to determine if 
and how the issue can be improved by training.  
Training Outcome Evaluation: A training outcome evaluation is carried out to see if 
the objectives of the training have been met and how the training  process can be 
improved. Results can be measured on four levels: the event and the participants’ 
Figure 8.2 : The action learning cycle. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
 
22 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M03/P(3/3) Muka Surat / Page :  22 
Drpd / of                 :  22 
immediate reactions, the participants’ learning, the participants’ job performance, and 
the organizational performance.  
 
 
SOALAN/ QUESTION: 
 
1. What is Training Needs analysis? 
2. Explain in brief four methods used for data collection. 
3. Explain the learning objectives could affect the training outcome evaluation. 
4. How will the training programme improve the trainee’s performance at their 
workplace? 
5. What are the four levels of evaluation? 
6. What is the action learning cycle? 
 
 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. Thomas N. Garavan, Carole Hogan, Amanda Cahir O’Donnell Cork , Making 
training and development work: a best practice guide, Oak Tree Press, 2003. 
2. Tom Holden , Training needs analysis in a week , London: Hodder & 
Stoughton, 2002. 
3. Dixon, N., The Organizational Learning Cycle. How we can learn collectively, 
London: McGraw-Hill,1994. 
4. Jean Barbazette , Training needs analysis: methods, tools and techniques , 
San Francisco, Calif: Pfeiffer, 2005. 
5. Roger Buckley and Jim  Caple, The theory and practice of training , Sixth 
Edition, London: Kogan Page, 2009. 
6. The Learning Needs Analysis Toolkit,www.conted.ox.ac.uk/courses/professio
nal/lnat, A toolkit and questionnaire developed by the University of Oxford. 