 
1 
 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  PROGRAM 
/ PROGRAM CODE & NAME Z-009-4:2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ CORE 
ABILITY NO. AND TITLE 
CA01 ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR 
AWARENESS 
NO.DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / ABILITY NO. 
AND STATEMENT 
01.01 ADHERE TO CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF 
THE ORGANISATION. 
01.02 ENHANCE TEAMWORK  
01.03 DEMONSTRATE WORK DELEGATION 
CAPABILITY 
01.04 ENSURE SYSTEMATIC DOCUMENTATION 
01.05 ENCOURAGE ORGANISATION EVENT 
COORDINATION  
01.06 COMPLY WITH TRAINING REQUIREMENT 
PROCEDURES 
01.07 RECOGNIZE STAFF VERTICAL MOBILITY 
POTENTIAL 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(7/7) Mukasurat / Page  :  1 
Drpd / of                  : 5 
 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  STAFF VERTICAL MOBILITY 
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to handle organisational career 
advancement by reviewing the employees work performance and making decisions  on  
their future career developement 
  
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA  
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(7/7) Mukasurat / Page   :  2 
Drpd / of                  :  5 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1 Overview 
Staff vertical mobility enhances employee performance and has a positive impact on an 
organisation's overall effective ness.  Today many organizations are facing difficulty to 
identify the right candidate eligible for promotion.  The cultural shift toward s employees’ 
rights, technological advancement, changing workforce and the role of managers, are very 
much in line with the employee career development. This change suggests a broadened 
definition of career development from a  traditional notion of moving up the ladder toward 
creating an atm osphere that fosters growth, challenges and job enrichment. Employees 
must have the ability to manage their own development, and the organisation must 
provide the resources to facilitate this process. 
2 Staff vertical mobility 
Vertical mobility refers to the ability for employees to enter at one level and “climb a 
ladder” of jobs progressively with more responsibility. In general, the potential for 
vertical mobility within an organisation is to prevent the employees migration.   
3 Responsibility of staff vertical mobility 
Vertical mobility is the joint responsibility of the employee and the employer.  Employees 
must be motivated to seek out opportunities, prepare formal career  development plans, 
and be willing to work hard to develop their knowledg e, skills, and abilities to becom e 
competitive in their job functions.  
4 Selection criteria to facilitate staff vertical mobility 
The vertical mobility will provides employees with information on how to develop their 
qualifications in order to be competitive in achieving their individual goals. The tools to 
facilitate vertical mobility for employee in organisation are as follows: 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(7/7) Mukasurat / Page   :  3 
Drpd / of                  :  5 
4.1 Action plan 
Action plans must be written and outline the actual steps necessary to prepare the 
employee for further career growth. It must be  attainable and measurable as to allow the 
employee and the organisation to evaluate their progress. It must be specific and contain 
achievable developmental objectives, as well as the resources necessary to achieve the 
targets. It must b e flexible enough to enable the employee to manage their needs and 
desires throughout their careers.  
A time frame for accomplishing the action plan activities needs to be established and 
periodic follow -up must be conducted. Continuous monitoring and eval uation are 
essential, especially in the early part of the employee's career. Jobs may turn out to be 
something other than expected, or an employee's performance may indicate the need for 
a change in course. Employee development is multifaceted and must be viewed as a long-
term process. 
4.2 Participate in promotional examinations  
Generally, a promotion is a movement to a higher level classification within the same class 
series and often requires participation in an examination. Employees may also sign up on 
a l ist serve  to be notified of upcoming examinations  in their organisation. The mode of 
examination will be set by organisation depending on the nature of work. Commonly, the 
examination modes include an oral, interview or written examination. 
4.3 Proficiency in-service training 
Potential staff for promotion should attend all series of trainings . The training benefits 
the organisation and employees by keeping them up -to-date on duties and  
responsibilities within present job assignments. It also allows employees  the 
opportunity to maintain those skills and abilities necessary for the job they perform.  
Proficiency training subjects must consist of those elements of the training program that 
are indigenous to the organisation and its operations. This type of training is job specific 
and generally limited to areas that are essential to the overall job function. 
In some cases, specialty training is provided by organisation as a platform for employee 
to enhance knowledge, skills,  and abilities necessary to perform jobs  beyond the 
minimum level. It also allows E mployees to explore new areas of interest and 
specialization that will  enhance abilities and skills in other specialised jobs.  These 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(7/7) Mukasurat / Page   :  4 
Drpd / of                  :  5 
specialised courses are normally conduc ted through formal instruction and offered at 
local institutions of higher education or other designated facilities. 
5 Recognition of staff vertical mobilisation 
The staff mobility recognition is a part of organisational career advancement, with a 
specific focus on promotion decisions and the ir underlying reasons. It contributes to a 
better understanding of what managers tend to consider in recognizing staff for career 
mobility when making promotion decisions and evaluating their employees' career 
prospects. 
i) Identify potential staff for vertical mobilisation 
 
Identification of potential staff shall be performed if the staff able to fulfill certain 
criteria set by the organisation. For example, the staff s have to accomplish their 
action plan, pass the examination and proficient in a series of specialised training.  
ii) Performance appraisal 
Performance appraisal also assists management in taking decisions related to 
employee vertical mobility. For instance, the manager access the staff 
performance based on the achievement through the agreed Key Performance 
Indicator. 
iii) Evaluation of potential 
 
For jobs with promotion potential, promotions may occur after evaluation of the staff. 
This evaluation shall cover the criteria whether the staff able to perform at an  
acceptable level of competence, demonstrate the ability to perform work  at the next 
higher grade level and qualifications with specialised experience. 
iv) Identify potential staff for performance reward 
The manager shall acknowledge staff for vertical mobilization based on their work 
contribution and exemplary effort.  For example, the manger shall nominate the 
potential staff for Excellent Workers Award. This may e ncourage employees to 
publicly acknowledge and thank their peers for exceptional effort, doing an 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(7/7) Mukasurat / Page   :  5 
Drpd / of                  :  5 
outstanding job, enhancing the work environment, showing tremendous passion 
for the job or for providing leadership. 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION: 
1. What is staff vertical mobility? 
2. Whats is the role of management and employee in vertical staff mobilisation? 
3. Explain how the action plan shall influenced the career promotion of individual 
employee. 
4. How to recognise the vertical staff mobilisation? 
5. How to acknowledge and appreciate the employees’ efforts in a fair and timely 
manner? 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/vertical+mobility 
 
2. Fairburn, J., and J. Malcomson (2001), “Performance, Promotion, and the Peter 
Principle”,Review of Economic Studies 68: 45-66. 
 
3. Gibbs, M., and W. Hendricks (2004), “Do Formal Salary Systems Really Matters?”, 
Industrial and Labor Relations Review 58: 71-93. 
 
4. Belzil, C. and M. Bonagnno (2004), “The Promotion Dynamics of American 
Executives”,Discussion Paper 1003, IZA. 
 
5. Carrillo, J. (2003), “Job Assignment as a Screening Device”, International Journal of 
Industrial Organization 21: 881-905. 
 
6. Gibbons, R., and M. Waldman (1999), “A Theory of Wage and Promotion 
Dynamics”,Quarterly Journal of Economics 114: 1351-1358. 
 
 