 
1 
 
 
 
      
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4: 2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
 
CA05 STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
05.01 ADVOCATE EFFECTIVE THINKING 
05.02 COMPLY WITH EFECTIVE ANALYSIS  
05.03 APPLY STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
05.04 APPLY BUDGETARY CONTROL PROCEDURES 
05.05 APPLY PROBLEM SOLVING  TECHNIQUES 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  11 
 
TAJUK/TITLE: EFFECTIVE THINKING SKILL  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This information sheet is intended to describes the ability to come up with effective plans 
in line with an organization's objectives within a particular economic situation. The person 
who is competent in this CA shall be able to demonstrate, practice and apply strategic  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
1. Introduction to Strategic Thinking 
    1.1 Thinking is an activity of mind. It works on affirmations and confirmations of  
    comprehensions, observations, conclusions of the quests and searches of life for  
    learning, earning and problem solving. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    1.2 Thinking Skills are the mental processes that we apply when we seek to make          
     sense of experience like: solve problems, make decisions, ask questions, construct  
     plans, evaluate ideas, organize information and create objects. Thinking skills  
     enable us to integrate each new experience into the schema that we are  
     constructing of "how things are". There are many frameworks of thinking including  
     Bloom's Taxonomy, DeBono's thinking tools and Lipman's modes (Moseley et al,  
     2005). Thinking Skills can be put into two categories; cognitive and strategic / reflective  
     thinking skills: 
 
i) Cognitive Thinking Skills. 
              Cognitive thinking skills refer to the abilities to gain meaning and knowledge from  
              experience and information. Cognition is more then just learning information, it's  
Figure 1.1: The Thinking Map 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
              the ability to think about new information, process and speak about it and apply it  
              to other, previously acquired information as well as developing the ability to think  
              on higher levels, processing information more skilfully and making connections to  
              other information more easily. 
 
Information Gathering: 
 Sensing – seeing, hearing, 
touching 
 Retrieving – memory skills 
Basic Understanding: 
 Organizing gathered 
information 
 Forming concepts 
 Linking ideas together 
Productive Thinking: 
 Using information and 
understanding 
 Creating, deciding, 
analyzing, evaluating 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii) Strategic/Reflective Thinking Skills: 
              Strategic/reflective thinking skills are metacognition - thinking about thinking. It  
              can involve planning, monitoring and evaluating use of the cognitive skills.  
              Reflective thinking is an active, persistent, and careful consideration of a belief or  
              supposed form of knowledge, of the grounds that support that knowledge, and  
              focuses on the process of making judgments about what has happened.  
              However, reflective thinking is most important in prompting learning during  
              complex problem-solving situations because it provides an opportunity to step  
              back and think about how actually solve problems and how a particular set of  
              problem solving strategies is appropriated for achieving their goal. 
Figure 1.2(i): Domain of Cognitive Thinking Using Revise Bloom’s Taxonomy 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 Effective thinking is neither creative thinking nor lateral thinking. It is being aware of  
 and improving ones own thinking. Effective thinking moves beyond self-cantered views  
 of the universe to a broader, more abstract realm. This means expanding thinking  
 beyond the egocentric values and limited life experiences (Meyer, 1986). A simplified  
 view of effective thinking is gained by identifying the major activities we carry out as  
 we critically work through an issue: 
i) Observations. From a series of observations, we can come to establish: 
ii) Facts. From a series of facts, or from an absence of fact, we make: 
iii) Inferences. Testing the validity of our inferences, we can make: 
iv) Assumptions. From our assumptions, we form our: 
v) Opinions. Taking our opinions, we use the principles of logic to develop: 
vi) Arguments. And when we want to challenge the arguments of others, we employ: 
vii) Critical Analysis (through which we challenge the observations, facts, inferences, 
and so on, in the arguments that we are analyzing). 
 
       Simply, effective thinking means "using awareness + conscious thoughts + memories  
       + reflexes, hunches, and unconscious inputs to identify current primary needs, and  
       decide how to fill them well enough."  
Figure 1.2(ii) : Domain of Strategic/Reflective Thinking From Bloom’s 
Taxonomy 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
 
 1.4 An Effective Thinker consciously works at making his/her thinking more rational, clear,  
 accurate, and consistent. An effective thinker is one who utilizes a combination of critical 
 and creative thinking within the reasoning process. Strategic Thinker who are able to  
 assess and create opportunities for the future and implement actions that support  
 business goals. What qualities do you need more of to become a strategic thinker? 
Compare these eight (8) characteristics and their opposite to determine your  
 strategic thinking style. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   1.5 There are three (3) basic principles need to be considered when applying the  
    thinking skills: 
 
 
Figure 1.4 : The Eight (8) Characteristic of Strategic/Reflective Thinker vs 
Conversional Thinker   

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
 
 
i) Principle 1 - “The creation of new knowledge (to the owner) may not 
necessarily result in innovation but it is a precursor to the instigation of that 
process.” The most powerful attribute of conceptual model building is that the 
owner can actually create and build new knowledge in excess of that which 
contributed to the development of the initial model. High order thinking 
questions are important to encourage learners to build conceptual models of 
understanding. In order for learners to be able to think laterally, they must first 
create in their minds a conceptual framework/model of understanding. It is only 
then that they can build on this framework and improve upon it. If learners have 
only facts to work with, they cannot create new information from these alone. 
 
ii) Principle 2 – “Thinking is a discipline and as such calls for changes in the way 
we carry out our daily activities, and make decisions, and that requires a           
                 consciousness of thought.” In other words in order for learners to think about  
                 what they're doing they need to be encouraged into a discipline of questioning,  
                 and reflecting on their thoughts and thought processes and content. This is  
                 often referred to as metacognitive activity. It is the ability to think about your  
                 own thinking. 
 
iii) Principle 3 – “Knowledge can also be thought of as a product that can be      
                collectively constructed/created (new knowledge).” Inevitably some educators  
                will make the mistake of believing that unless there is concrete evidence in a  
                physical format of the learner's understanding, then the learner does not  
                understand the concept or principal being discussed. Lawyers are all too well  
                aware that intellectual property (IP) is very real, and can be patented and  
                protected, even though there is no visible product to demonstrate that  
                intellectual capacity. Burger and Starbird supported these basic principles with  
                five elements of effective thinking: 
a) Understand deeply 
b) Fail to succeed 
c) Be your own Socrates 
d) Look back, look forward 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd. / of:  11 
e) Transform yourself. 
 
 
 
     1.6  The Underlying Thinking Principles - “Six Thinking Hats” 
     Human brain thinks in a number of distinct ways which can be deliberately  
     challenged, and hence planned for use in a structured way allowing one to develop  
     tactics for thinking about particular issues. Edward de Bono identifies six distinct  
     directions in which the brain can be challenged. In each of these directions the  
     brain will identify and bring into conscious thought certain aspects of issues being  
     considered (e.g. gut instinct, pessimistic judgments, neutral facts). None of these  
     directions are completely natural ways of thinking, but rather how some of us  
     already represent the results of our thinking. 
     Each hat does not represent natural modes of thinking and must be used for a  
     limited time only. Many will feel that using the hats is unnatural, uncomfortable or  
     even counter productive and against their better judgment. A compelling example  
     presented is sensitivity to "mismatch" stimuli. This is presented as a valuable  
     survival instinct, because, in the natural world: the thing that is out of the ordinary  
     may well be dangerous. This mode is identified as the root of negative judgment  
     and critical thinking. Six distinct directions are identified and assigned a colour.  
     The six directions are: 
i) Managing (Blue) - What is the subject? What are we thinking about? What is the 
goal? 
ii) Information (White) - considering purely what information is available, what are the 
facts? 
iii) Emotions (Red) - intuitive or instinctive gut reactions or statements of emotional 
feeling (but not any justification) 
iv) Discernment (Black) - logic applied to identifying reasons to be cautious and 
conservative 
v) Optimistic response (Yellow) - logic applied to identifying benefits, seeking harmony 
vi) Creativity (Green) - statements of provocation and investigation, seeing where a 
thought goes.  
 
          Coloured hats are used as metaphors for each direction. Switching to a direction is  
          symbolized by the act of putting on a coloured hat, either literally or metaphorically.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd. / of:  11 
         These metaphors allow for a more complete and elaborate segregation of the  
         thinking directions. The six thinking hats indicate problems and solutions about an  
         idea the thinker may come up with. 
 
Figure 1.6 : Edward de Bono’s Six Thinking Hats 
  
    1.7 The Thinking Strategies and Its Application in Problem Solving 
     Thinking strategic is a powerful leadership tool that gives organizations the foresight  
     and insight needed to succeed in the long term, especially when applied  
     throughout the organization. Strategic thinking involves setting goals, developing  
     long-range plans, anticipating the unexpected, analyzing your environment, and  
     even cooperating with your competitors. When organizations begin to think  
     strategically, they gain: 
i) Insight, or problem solving skills, that help them intuitively make sense of chaos 
in their environment. 
ii) The ability to see emerging conditions that could potentially provide long-term 
competitive advantage. 
Figure 5 - Edward De Bono Six Thinking Hats for Ideas Generation and Evaluation 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  9 
Drpd. / of:  11 
iii) The skill of visualizing, interpreting and scanning the environment for information 
about the organization’s present and future. 
iv) The ability to identify new market opportunities and create real solutions that 
advance business. 
 
 
v) The ability to understand the importance of relationship building and its 
interconnectedness with business goals. 
 
           What are thinking skills activities that can be used effectively in thinking  
           strategies?  
a) Brainstorming - to promote fluent thinking 
b) Flexible Thinking - activities stretch the mind into considering possibilities 
beyond the usual responses. 
c) Forecasting - forecast what could be or might be. 
d) Inductive Thinking - collect, organize, and determine whether their 
generalizations can hold up against data. 
e) Inference Making - provide a possible consequence, conclusion, or 
implication from a set of facts or premises. 
f) Logical Thinking - activities that require logical thinking begin with 
assumptions or concepts and generate ideas step-by-step to arrive at an 
endpoint or a solution. 
g) Deductive Thinking - asks to consider the generalizations given and provide 
supporting data. 
h) Problem Solving - complex thinking process often involve problem solving 
and decision making. 
i) Decision Making - thinking skills needed in choosing the best response 
from several options. 
j) Observation - watch for a purpose and note objective changes, details, or 
procedures. 
k) Interpretation - use their perceptions in examining their assumptions when 
making a judgement or reaching a conclusion.  
l) Comparison - examine two or more situations, objects, ideas, or events and 
seek out relationships, similarities, or differences. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  10 
Drpd. / of:  11 
m) Analysis - examine the problem to be solved, taking it apart, identifying its 
elements, and finding relationships.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SOALAN / QUESTION: 
 
1. What do you understand with strategic thinking? 
2. Explain the underlying principles of strategic thinking in solving a problem. 
3. Distinguish effective thinking and strategic thinking. 
4. Describe how you advocate effective thinking in strategic thinking.  
 
 
  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(1/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  11 
Drpd. / of:  11 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
1. Effective Thinking Definition. Retrieved from website: 
 https://www.google.com/?gws_rd=ssl#q=effective+thinking+definition -  
 
2. Vadim Kotelnikov (2013). Strategic Thinking: 7 Principles -. Retrieved from website: 
http://kotelnikov.biz/coach/thinking_strategic_7principles.html: 
 
3. Strategic Thinking. Retrieved from website: 
www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~ipng/mecon/sg/10strt_sg.pdf:  
 
4. Strategic Thinking Skills - The Great Courses. Retrieved from website: 
  www.thegreatcourses.com/courses/strategic-thinking-skills.html 
  
5. A Strategic Thinker. Retrieved from website: 
  http://blog.mitchcommgroup.com/blake/8-characteristics-of-a-strategic-
 thinker 
 
6. L. Guinn & A. Williamson (2014).  Eight Habits of Effective Critical Thinkers 
Retrieved online from website: http://www.amanet.org/training/articles/Eight-
Habits-of-Effective-Critical-Thinkers.aspx: Last updated 6/2/2014 
 
 
7. K. Gerlach (2014). Keys to Effective Thinking; Stay aware and focused, and 
avoid vague language. Retrieved online from website: 
 
8. Peter Walsh (2014). Are You A Strategic Thinker? Retrieved online from website: 
  http://www.harvardbusiness.org/blog/are-you-strategic-thinker  
 
9. Karaali (2013). 5 Elements of Effective Thinking. Retrieved online from website:  
  http://www.maa.org/press/maa-reviews/the-5-elements-of-effective- thinking 
10. Fennis (2011). Classify with De Bono’s thinking Hats - Underlying principles. 
  Retrieved online from website:       
  http://www.bloomingood.com.au/blog/six-thinking-hats/  
 
 
 