# Z-009-2-2015\MODULE 02 INTERPERSONAL BEHAVIOUR\SUB MODULE 2-TEAM WORK APPLICATION\Kertas Penerangan 2.2.PDF

===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
 
 
 
                  
 
KOD DAN NAMA PROGRAM / 
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
 Z-009-2: 2015  CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
2 (TWO) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS /  
CORE ABILITY NO.  AND 
TITLE 
CA02 INTERPERSONAL BEHAVIOUR  
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
02.01 DEMONSTRATE RESPONSIBILITY AT 
           WORKPLACE 
02.02 APPLY TEAMWORK COOPERATION                  
CONCEPT 
02.03 INITIATE PROBLEM SOLVING AT 
WORKPLACE 
02.04 DEMONSTRATE WORK PERFORMANCE           
AWARENESS 
 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. 
 
 
Z-009-2:2015 –M02/P(2/4) 
Mukasurat/ Page:  1 
Drpd / of              :  15 
 
TAJUK/TITLE :  
TEAM WORK APPLICATION 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE : 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on abilities to understand the principles of 
privacy and confidentiality, adhere to job deliveries and attendance, understand team work 
contributions and appreciate individual and cultural differences. The person who is 
competent in this CU shall be able to portray good personal behaviour in working 
environment. 
    
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 – 8, BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET)

===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  15 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION OF TEAMWORK 
 
Teamwork is often a crucial part of a business, as it is often necessary for colleagues to 
work well together, trying their best in any circumstances. Teamwork is the process of 
working collaboratively with a group of people in order to achieve a goal that means 
people will try to cooperate, using their individual skills and providing constructive 
feedback, despite any personal conflict between individuals. Professional roles and 
responsibilities will include a variety of work assignments. More of you working time will be 
spent working in a team. Some reminders to us: 
 
1.1 
Teams are not just a group 
Research on teams indicates that teamwork surpasses what can be accomplished 
by individuals and many work groups. True teamwork is a higher level of 
performance and described by terms such as "synergy" or "high performance". 
Groups that learn how to work together become teams. 
 
1.2 
Quality is not just a given 
Some team members try to rationalize the performance capability of their team 
"given whom we had in the group". Team performance can be changed and will 
always be influenced by what individuals do or don't do and by the way the team 
members interact to address performance challenges (team processes).  
 
1.3 
Teamwork is not just about personalities 
Each team will have a different combination of personalities. Teamwork doesn't 
depend on the personalities of team members; it depends on the ability of the team 
to figure out how to work together that maximizes the contribution each team 
member can make to the project goals. Some team members are surprised that 
someone "so different" from them is a very competent team member. 
 
1.4 
Top 5 teamwork process objectives 
i) 
Learn the importance of discussion and agreement on team 
processes. 
ii) 
Learn the importance of communications among team members.

===== PAGE 3 =====
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  15 
                     iii) 
Learn to prepare for team activities, then reflect on the results and  
 
assess team performance. 
iv) 
Understand team roles and relationships. 
v) 
Learn the importance of documenting process and results, 
 
2. 
TEAMWORK ADVANTAGES 
 
Framed wall hangings extolling the value of "Teamwork" appear in offices everywhere, so 
the term might sound a bit cliched. However, small organization that keep the teamwork 
concept at the forefront of how they operate can reap some real advantages. Teamwork is 
what keeps all parts of the business machine running smoothly.  
 
2.1 
Motivation and Support 
Utilizing teamwork in an organization bolsters the weaknesses of some with the 
strengths of others. If one person excels at making conference calls, while another 
is great at typing up documents, then each can support each other with the talent 
that would be lacking if each were forced to work solo. Likewise, one worker is 
bound to have an off day where enthusiasm is lagging, so another member of the 
team can help encourage that worker to do a better job. The motivation team 
members can give each other creates greater camaraderie, leading to greater 
fulfillment within relationships at work. 
 
2.2 
Accountability 
Teamwork creates an environment in which workers are accountable for what they 
produce, because other team members are counting on each individual piece to 
make the puzzle or the project work to everyone's satisfaction. When all workers do 
their part, it lends them a sense of pride and belonging, as well as status among the 
team. An individual's accomplishment such as a catchy ad slogan idea gives that 
worker attention and recognition among his peers. 
 
2.3 
Creative Solutions 
As the old saying goes, two heads are better than one. And with a team, even more 
so. Solutions to problems and fresh ideas are generated by the brainstorming that 
teamwork fosters. Teams allow skills, knowledge, opinions and experiences to be 
pooled together for the benefit of the organization as a whole. This leads to better

===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  15 
productivity for every member of the team, and every task completed by each 
worker leads to one noticeable outcome that the whole team and company can take 
proud in. 
 
2.4 
Competition and Growth 
Teamwork allows individual workers to see how other workers do their jobs, and 
can be a source of education and inspiration. Less experienced workers can learn 
and grow from their interactions with senior-level team members. Opportunities to 
learn from each others strengths can also lead to a healthy sense of competition 
that motivates the team to produce greater quality or quantity of product or service. 
  
3. 
THE USE OF TEAMWORK IN AN ORGANIZATION 
 
Many human resources specialists and management professionals are familiar with the 
concept of using the word "team" as an acronym: Together Everyone Achieves More. The 
concept is an ideal representation of the importance of cooperation and teamwork within a 
workplace or other organizational structure. In fact, the use of teamwork in an organization 
greatly enhances and improves productivity and increases overall profit and success. 
 
3.1 
Types of Teams 
Online organization encyclopedia, Reference for Organization, breaks down 
organizational teamwork into several different types of teams. Problem-solving 
teams composed of cross-trained workers are brought together to resolve issues 
within the organizational structure. Leadership teams include heads of specific 
departments to develop company goals and strategic marketing directions. Self-
directed teams are issued a goal by the organization and are left to their own 
discretion to determine how to accomplish it. Virtual teams are formed by 
companies who rely on technology to conduct long-distance organization, meetings 
and conferences in real time. 
 
3.2 
Requirements for Teamwork 
Certain requirements and characteristics exist that make an effective organizational 
team, according to the Leadership Quality website. One of the primary components 
of successful teamwork is a clear and precise goal followed by a straightforward 
path to achieve it. A successful team has knowledgeable staff members and

===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  15 
assigns specific duties relevant to their expertise. Some social characteristics of a 
professional work team include the ability to establish effective and cooperative 
working relationships, good interpersonal skills and the willingness to share in 
successes and failures. 
 
3.3 
Employee Benefits 
Working as part of an organizational team is beneficial to employees and 
foundation members in a number of ways, according to Career Post Magazine. The 
opportunity to expand your professional knowledge by collaborating with members 
of different expertise provides an abundance of learning opportunities. You'll also 
experience less personal responsibility when a project fails because, as a team, the 
burden falls on all who were involved. In fact, your chances of failure are often 
reduced if not eliminated since projects are monitored by several team members, 
more eyes to catch mistakes. Other perks include increased social contact in the 
workplace and opportunities to for professional development. 
 
3.4 
Organizational Benefits 
Good morale within an organization leads to increased productivity, and a well-
integrated team leads to good morale. Many companies find that teamwork 
encourages product innovation, boosts morale, increases productivity and creates 
more accountable employees. Teamwork promotes collaboration, commitment, 
motivation, dependability and accountability among staff or organizational 
members. Imposing team responsibilities helps increase individual strengths, 
improves delegation and reduces or eliminates certain lower levels of management. 
 
3.5 
Teamwork Skills 
i) 
Contribute 
 Prepare your individual assignments 
 Participate as a peer at team meetings 
 Listen to other members of the team 
 Articulate your ideas appropriately 
ii) 
Coordinate 
 Discuss team expectations and team processes  
 Identify team leader and team member roles.  
 Plan team meetings

===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  15 
 Manage deadlines.  
 Provide information as needed to other team members or those  
outside the team. 
iv) 
Collaborate 
 Know how to assesses the quality of team interaction and  
      discussion  
 Periodically reflect on team process and fit with project tasks  
 Discuss conflicting viewpoints and team member's differences  
 
Develop team ability to initiate with others and anticipate problems 
in product development or team work  
 Select ideas and/or create new ideas effectively and efficiently as a  
      team 
 
4. 
WORK GOALS AND TARGETS 
Whatever you're aiming to achieve, you'll have no way of knowing how close you've come 
unless you set clear targets and measure how close you've come to hitting them. 
 
4.1 
Why you should set targets 
The purpose of setting targets goes far beyond a simple benchmark to dictate if 
2010's been a job well done or not. Targets provide a structure to constantly assess 
the performance of your organization. At the top level, targets should crystallise 
your vision for the year. Below that, they provide a way of breaking that vision down 
to outline what needs to happen to achieve it: at what rate you should expect to see 
progress (quarterly, monthly, weekly targets etc), and which departments and 
individuals or functions of your organization are responsible for what. 
Targets create structure. You shouldn't be able to set budgets or allocate resources 
until you have identified what your objectives are for every part of your organization. 
You should be able to stop and see if you're on track at any point if you have 
targets in place across your organization - and if you're not where you should be, 
you can quickly analyse where the problems lie. You'll also be able to identify areas 
that 
are 
flourishing 
and 
present 
greater 
opportunity 
more 
quickly. 
 
Achieving targets also promotes a sense of ownership among employees - 
particularly if you tie pay to achievement, as Arno does. "It's like our employees 
have got their own little organization within our organization, and they're trying to hit

===== PAGE 7 =====
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  15 
goals 
for 
their 
organization." 
Targets 
for 
the 
immediate 
future 
help you plan for subsequent years too. You can measure actual performance 
against the objectives you set, and start spotting seasonal trends. This end-of-year 
analysis allows you to lay out your next set of targets in a more informed way, with 
a set of data to work from and, hopefully, improve upon. 
 
4.2 
Before you start 
Targets don't just have to be about growth and sales (though they often are). You 
could work on training, employee engagement, research expenditure versus return, 
press coverage, brand awareness, customer loyalty - the list goes on. Assess your 
current situation thoroughly - a SWOT analysis will help - to establish which areas 
of the organization you need to focus on in the next 12 months to thrive. Or, indeed, 
your ambitions for all areas of your organization. Breaking down any bigger 
ambitions you have for the next few years into year-by-year goals will obviously be 
a good starting point, but you also need to hone in on the specific parts of the 
organization that need attention. Think of the way the different cogs in your 
organization jog each other into motion. If you want more sales, you may need to 
improve marketing and website visits, so you'll need to set targets for those to 
reach on overall aim for organization growth. Your targets should all be 'SMART', 
whichever area you're focusing on. That means each presses all the following 
buttons: 
           i) 
S: Specific  
Use hard numbers and definitive goals rather than fluffy aims, and 
focus on one part of the organization per target. So, say, 'I want to see 
sales increase by 10%' rather than 'I want to see the organization 
grow'. 
ii) 
M: Measurable 
Make sure you can measure your goal. Use percentages or unit 
numbers or another real measure. This allows you to assess 
performance and will show you precisely when a target has been hit. 
Iii) 
A: Achievable 
Over-ambitious goals can be incredibly damaging to morale and 
plans. Make sure targets are within reason. 
iv) 
R: realistic 
Only create goals that you can achieve with the resources you

===== PAGE 8 =====
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  15 
Already have. 
v) 
T: time 
Set deadlines for each objective. 
 
 
5. 
COMMUNICATION SKILL 
 
A more accurate way of looking at the process of communication is probably as a 
dynamic, circuitous process in which elements such as non-verbal behaviour and 
individual styles of interpreting and ascribing meaning to events have significant influence. 
Strategies such as constructing a clear, unambiguous message can encourage effective 
communication, but so too can seeking to understand meanings imposed by the listener 
via processes such as actively listening to feedback, as we shall see. 
Many models have been developed to simplify and summarise the complex reality of the 
communication process and to aid our understanding. Some of these are more helpful 
than others, but all have their shortcomings. The ‘Typical Communication Model’ 
developed by Clampitt (2005) demonstrates a number of key elements in the 
communication process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5.1 Typical communication model 
 
5.1 
The Communication Process  
Person 1 constructs and sends a message. Messages are the signals and symbols 
that we use to convey what we want to transmit. They can occur in various ways,

===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of         :  15 
including visual (non-verbal, written), auditory (verbal and sub-vocal speech), tactile 
(touch, bodily contact) and olfactory (perfumes, aftershaves) formats.  In order to 
send the message, it must be encoded into words, as well as tone, inflection, facial 
expression, and other non-verbal language. While skills such as clear thinking, 
concise expression of plain english, logical association of ideas and organised 
speech are important, especially to specific contexts such as giving presentations  
they do not ensure that effective communication will take place. The meaning of the 
message is not contained solely in the words, as factors such as non-verbal cues, 
the context and the people involved will heavily influence meaning. It is important to 
note that unintended as well as intended meanings may be communicated via non-
verbal leakage.  
 
i. 
The Cannel 
In Clampitt’s (2005) model, this refers to the means used to deliver 
messages and the related formats. Means used to communicate can 
include face to face, telephone, pager, written, radio and video 
communication. In face to face communication, which is most often 
preferred 
for 
communication 
of 
more 
important 
matters, 
communication occurs through visual, auditory and olfactory formats, 
while the tactile medium may or may not be used. Skilled 
communicators will choose the channel most appropriate to the 
specific goals sought at that time. 
  
 
ii. 
Receiving Massage 
For effective communication to take place, the message must be 
accurately decoded and reconstructed by person 2, from the signals 
received from person 1. However, even if the "encoding" is car ried 
out very well; this in itself does not ensure that it will be "decoded" 
accurately. The meaning ascribed to the message may vary according 
to the person doing the interpreting, the context in which the message 
was given and the total information communicated. In terms of the 
person doing the interpreting, we all have underlying beliefs and 
understandings of the world which will influence the ways in which we 
tend to understand and ascribe meaning to incoming data.

===== PAGE 10 =====
10 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  10 
Drpd / of         :  15 
5.2 
Effective Communication  
Being able to communicate with others is one of the best life skills a person can 
develop. Someone who can effectively communicate thoughts, ideas, and feelings 
is better equipped for success both on the job and in personal relationships. 
Effective communication is much more than being able to talk; it is also the ability to 
listen and understand others, to “read” and interpret body language and to know the 
best ways to get our points across. 
 
i. 
To be a better speaker: 
• Be considerate. Don’t dominate the conversation by talking only 
about yourself. Use questions to probe the person’s feelings or 
opinions on the topic of conversation. 
• Speak clearly. Don’t mumble or talk in the opposite direction of the  
listener. Also, use words that you know the listener might 
understand. 
• Stay focused on the conversation. Doing something else while you 
are talking, such as typing or working on a car, sends a message 
to the listener that you don’t think the conversation is worthy of 
your full attention, and it could inhibit the listener’s responses to 
what you say. 
• Be brief. Don’t over talk a point. It may cause the other person to 
lose interest in the conversation. 
ii. 
To be a better listener: 
• Eliminate distractions. If you find it hard to concentrate because of 
your surroundings, move to another area or schedule another time 
to talk. 
• Make time to listen. If you are in a hurry or don’t have time, let the 
speaker know and schedule another time to talk. Better to delay the 
conversation than to risk having an important conversation cut 
short. 
• Practice reflective listening. Repeat what you think the speaker said 
to ensure you heard the speaker correctly. This is called “reflective 
listening” and it is identified by statements as “If I understand you 
correctly…” reflective listening gives the speaker a chance to clarify

===== PAGE 11 =====
11 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  11 
Drpd / of         :  15 
a point and ensures that both the speaker and the listener are on 
the same page. 
• Listen for understanding. If you don’t understand what is being 
said, don’t by shy or embarrassed to ask questions. It is better to 
ask for clarification than to risk a misunderstanding that could 
lead to problems later on. 
• Wait for the speaker to finish. Don’t interrupt, even when it’s 
apparent the person speaking is gathering his/her thoughts. 
• Pay attention to what is being said. When someone is speaking, 
don’t spend that time preparing your remarks or working on a 
project – listen. 
• Keep eye contact. Doing so shows that you are interested in what 
is being said, which may encourage the speaker to express 
him/herself more freely. 
iii. 
The fine points of arguing fairly: 
Everyone gets into arguments, but good communicators know how to 
argue fairly. Here are some guidelines to keep your arguments from 
going too far south. 
• Don’t resort to name calling. Never, ever call a partner a hurtful 
name. Try the five-second rule (below) to choose words that are 
appropriate and relevant to the disagreement. 
• Try the five-second rule. Because we sometimes say things without 
thinking of the consequences, wait five seconds before you 
comment on what is just been said. Use this time to exercise 
control and think about what you should say. 
• Stick to the issue at hand. Talk only about the present point of 
disagreement. Bringing up or engaging in discussions about past 
problems adds the proverbial fuel to the fire. It also shifts the focus 
from the present problem, which means it probably won’t get 
resolved and will cause trouble again. 
• Manage your anger. Anger is a natural emotion, especially when you 
are having a disagreement. But don’t allow your anger to turn violent. 
If you feel your anger reaching that point, leave the scene 
immediately and do something safe to calm yourself down – counting

===== PAGE 12 =====
12 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  12 
Drpd / of         :  15 
to 20, taking a brisk walk or exercising. Don’t resort to drugs or 
alcohol or drive your car away on all cylinders. 
 
• Speak and act with regard for the other person. Remember with 
whom you are arguing. It may be a marriage partner or someone 
whom you love and care about deeply. Although that is probably the 
last thing on your mind when you are having a disagreement, it 
should be the first. 
 
6. 
NEGOTIATION 
Negotiation is a method by which people settle differences. It is a process by which 
compromise or agreement is reached while avoiding argument and dispute. In any 
disagreement, individuals understandably aim to achieve the best possible outcome for 
their position (or perhaps an organisation they represent). However, the principles of 
fairness, seeking mutual benefit and maintaining a relationship are the keys to a 
successful outcome.  
 
6.1 
Why Negotiate? 
It is inevitable that, from time-to-time, conflict and disagreement will arise as the 
differing needs, wants, aims and beliefs of people are brought together.  Without 
negotiation, such conflicts may lead to argument and resentment resulting in one or 
all of the parties feeling dissatisfied. The point of negotiation is to try to reach 
agreements without causing future barriers to communications. 
 
6.2 
Stages of Negotiation 
In order to achieve a desirable outcome, it may be useful to follow a structured 
approach to negotiation. For example, in a work situation a meeting may need to be 
arranged in which all parties involved can come together. 
The process of negotiation includes the following stages: 
- 
Preparation 
- 
Discussion 
- 
Clarification of goals 
- 
Negotiate towards a Win-Win outcome 
- 
Agreement 
- 
Implementation of a course of action

===== PAGE 13 =====
13 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  13 
Drpd / of         :  15 
 
i) 
Preparation 
Before any negotiation takes place, a decision needs to be taken as 
to when and where a meeting will take place to discuss the problem 
and who will attend.  Setting a limited time-scale can also be helpful to 
prevent the disagreement continuing. 
This stage involves ensuring all the pertinent facts of the situation are 
known in order to clarify your own position.  In the work example 
above, this would include knowing the ‘rules’ of your organisation, to 
whom help is given, when help is not felt appropriate and the grounds 
for such refusals.  Your organisation may well have policies to which 
you can refer in preparation for the negotiation. 
Undertaking preparation before discussing the disagreement will help 
to avoid further conflict and unnecessarily wasting time during the 
meeting. 
ii) 
Discussion 
During this stage, individuals or members of each side put forward the 
case as they see it, i.e. their understanding of the situation. Key skills 
during this stage include questioning, listening and clarifying. 
Sometimes it is helpful to take notes during the discussion stage to 
record all points put forward in case there is need for further 
clarification.  It is extremely important to listen, as when disagreement 
takes place it is easy to make the mistake of saying too much and 
listening too little.  Each side should have an equal opportunity to 
present their case. 
iii) 
Clarifying Goals 
From the discussion, the goals, interests and viewpoints of both sides 
of the disagreement need to be clarified.  It is helpful to list these 
factors in order of priority.  Through this clarification it is often possible 
to identify or establish some common ground. Clarification is an 
essential part of the negotiation process, without it misunderstandings 
are likely to occur which may cause problems and barriers to reaching 
a beneficial outcome.

===== PAGE 14 =====
14 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  14 
Drpd / of         :  15 
 
 
iv) 
Negotiate Towards a Win-Win Outcome 
This stage focuses on what is termed a 'win-win' outcome where both 
sides feel they have gained something positive through the process of 
negotiation and both sides feel their point of view has been taken into 
consideration. A win-win outcome is usually the best result. Although 
this may not always be possible, through negotiation, it should be the 
ultimate goal. Suggestions of alternative strategies and compromises 
need to be considered at this point.  Compromises are often positive 
alternatives which can often achieve greater benefit for all concerned 
compared to holding to the original positions. 
 
v) 
Useful Negotiation Skills 
Good interpersonal skills are essential and useful for effective 
negotiations in both formal situations, in less formal or one-to-one 
negotiations.  Let’s take a look at some skills that you may want to 
whip out when dealing with negotiating. 
 
Effective verbal communication. 
 
Listening skills to reduce misunderstanding. 
 
Rapport Building to build stronger working relationships 
between the people  you are negotiating with based on mutual 
respect. 
 
Problem solving skills. 
 
Decision making skills and techniques. 
 
 Assertiveness to show your partners and the other party that  
  
you feel Strong   about the process. 
 
The ability to deal calmly and rationally with difficult situations. 
vi) 
Tip for successful negotiations 
 
Present your arguments clearly, concisely, and with confidence 
to avoid any confusion or unnecessary conflict with the other party. 
 
Remain Calm during the process.  Avoid losing your temper if  
discussions  become heated or if things do not go your way. 
 
Be aware of any verbal or non verbal communication cues that  
are demonstrated by the other party.  Watch for body language 
and other non verbal signals between partners.

===== PAGE 15 =====
15 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. 
 Z-009-2:2015-M02/P(2/4) 
Muka Surat / Page :  15 
Drpd / of         :  15 
 
SOALAN / QUESTIONS: 
 
1. 
List four (4) and explain the advantages of teamwork cooperation. 
(12 Marks) 
 
2. 
 List four (4) and explain the benefits of communication process.  
 (12 Marks) 
 
3. 
State four (4) factor and explain the stages of negotiation.  
       
 
 
(12 Marks) 
 
4. 
State four (4) factors and explain the element of communication process. 
 (12 Marks) 
 
 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN/REFERENCES 
 
 
1. 
http://smallorganization.chron.com/advantages-teamwork-concept-organizations-
56220.html 
2. 
http://www.organizationdictionary.com/definition/teamwork.html 
3. 
https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/designteach/design/instructionalstrategies/discussio
ns.html 
4. 
http://www.skillsyouneed.com/general/communication-skills.html 
5. 
http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/hr/hrdepts/asap/Documents/Communication_Skills.p
df