# Z-009-3-2015\CA6 HSE CONSCIOUSNESS\Kertas Penerangan 6.3.pdf

===== PAGE 1 =====
61 
 
 
 
        
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-3: 2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
3 (THREE) 
NO.  DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN 
TERAS/CORE ABILITY 
NO. AND TITLE 
 
C06 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
 
IMPLEMENTATION CONSCIOUSNESS 
 
NO. ABILITI DAN 
TAJUK /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
04.01 EXECUTE HEALTH CONCIOUSNESS 
04.02 EXECUTE SAFETY CONCIOUSNESS 
04.03 EXECUTE ENVIRONMENTAL CONCIOUSNESS 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  21 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the Occupational Safety And Health 
(OSH) Act, Industrial Code Of Practise (ICOP) and Guidelines. The person who is 
competent in Health, safety and environmental consciousness shall be able to execute 
health consciousness, execute safety consciousness and execute environment 
compliance. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to execute his/her job 
functions in accordance to the requirements of health, safety and environment rules and 
regulations. 
 
 
 
 JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
 KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
 ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
 PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
 62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 KERTAS PENERANGAN  
(INFORMATION SHEET)

===== PAGE 2 =====
62 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1. Environmental Conservation 
Some people believe that public land should be managed by the method of conservation, 
meaning that the environment and its resources should be used by humans and managed 
in a responsible manner. These types of people see the value of the environment as the 
goods and services that it can provide to people.  
 
This viewpoint requires that the environment be used in a way that is sustainable, and it 
ensures that the natural resources will be used in a manner that will meet the present day 
needs for the resource without jeopardizing the supply of the resource for future 
generations.  
 
By using the environment sustainably, the environment and the natural resources it 
provides will not be depleted or destroyed permanently - and will be available for human 
use for a very long time. If people do not manage the land properly and the resources are 
not being used sustainably, then the environment can be destroyed, and the conservation 
method will have failed. 
 
Environmental conservation is the act of conserving or saving our natural resources 
through careful management. This means we can use the resources but wisely and 
responsibly. Examples: reducing your waste, saving trees, recycling, using renewable 
resources that don't deplete our natural resources. 
 
1.1. Conservation Concept. 
 Conservation is a broad concept with involves not only the scientific but ethical, moral, 
economic and political aspects as well. Conservation has been variously defined. 
Conservation for the petroleum engineer is largely minimizing of waste from incomplete 
extraction and for a forester it may be sustained yield of products. In all cases, 
conservation deals with judicious development and manner of use of natural resources 
of all kinds. 
 
 A generalized definition of conservation is “the maximization overtime of the net social 
benefits in goods and services from resources”. Although it is technologically based, 
conservation cannot escape socially determined values.

===== PAGE 3 =====
63 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
 Conservation may also be defined as the achievement of the highest sustainable 
quality of living for mankind by the rational utilization of the environment, protection of 
nature to enrich the life of man and the control or elimination of environmental pollution 
in its many manifestations. 
 
 Conversation advocates practices that will perpetuate the resources of the earth on 
which man depends or in whose continued existence he takes an interest. 
Conversation derives its tenets from knowledge of ecology, the science concerned with 
interrelationship between living things and their environment. 
 
 
But the question arises, why there is a need for conversation? The reasons are: 
i) World population is increasing at an alarming rate, 
ii) World resources are being used up at an increasing rate due to increase in 
population, 
iii) Pollutions is increasing with the passage of time, and 
iv) Damage caused by human activities is sometimes irreversible. 
 
 
Conservation involves perpetuation of the natural environment of man including the 
infinite resources of air, water, soil and life forms. Conversation involves the collective 
responsibility of governments, private organizations, industries and individuals and the 
setting aside of funds, finances for ecological research and execution of conservation 
projects. 
 
1.2  Aims and Principles of Conservation 
 
The aims of conservation are two-fold: 
 
i) To ensure the preservation of a quality environment that considers 
 
aesthetics andrecreational as well as product needs. 
ii) To ensure a continuous yield of useful plants, animals and materials by 
 
establishing abalanced cycle of harvest and renewal. 
 
 
 Principles of Conservation

===== PAGE 4 =====
64 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
Conservation is achieved through measures adopted in favor of a natural resource in 
order to increase its longevity and improve usage patterns. Some such measures are 
as follows: 
 
i) Rational use of the resources: 
Rational use of the resources is one of the concepts is conservation o natural 
resources in an essentially undisturbed condition because they are of scientific 
interest, have aesthetic appeal or have recreational value. Preservation also 
serves an ecological purpose by maintaining the function of the total environment, 
for example, protection of forests assures a sustained yield of water into urban 
reservoirs, and protection of estuaries perpetuates ocean fishery. 
 
But rational use is not just preservation. It also implies the direct use of resources 
for their commodity or recreational value. Thus, harvesting of forest crops, 
livestock grazing of grassland, catching fish and hunting wild animals can be 
considered a legitimate part of the rational use of natural resources, if they are 
carried out in such a way that the resource is perpetuated and not endangered. 
 
ii) 
Sustained yield: 
 
Concept of sustained yield is involved in these activities. This means cropping the 
annual surplus of individuals so as not to endanger the breeding stock of game 
animals or fish. Similarly, tree cutting or grazing of grass should remove only the 
annual increment and no more. 
 
iii) 
Restoration: 
 
Restoration is another important aspect of conservation. It is a widely familiar 
conservation measure, which is essentially the correction of past careless 
activities that have impaired the productivity of the resource base. Deforests 
areas and mined and barren lands can be revegetated with some effort. Depleted 
animal and plant populations can recover if they are accorded protection. This 
measure is familiar in modern soil and water conservation practices applied to 
agricultural land.

===== PAGE 5 =====
65 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
Restoration is possible, however, only as long as species are protected and 
genetic diversity of life is maintained. When species become extinct, the 
restoration of past conditions becomes impossible. 
 
iv) 
Protection: 
 
Protection of natural resources from commercial exploitation to prolong their use 
for recreation, watershed protection, and scientific study. This is the concept 
underlying the establishment and protection of parks and reserves of many kinds. 
 
v) 
Reutilisation : 
 
Reutilisation is the reuse of waste materials, as in the use of industrial water after 
it has been purified and cooled. The same process becomes recycling if the water 
material requires minor treatment before it can be used, as in the use of scrap 
iron in steel manufacture. 
 
vi) 
Substitution: 
 
Substitution, an important conservation measure, has two aspects: (i) the use of a 
common resource instead of a rare one when it is for the same purpose, (ii) the 
use of a renewable rather than a non-renewable resource when conditions permit. 
 
vii) Allocation: 
 
Allocation concerns the strategy of use- the best use of a resource. For many 
resources and their products, the market price decides as to the use a resource is 
put, but under certain instances, general welfare may dictate otherwise. The 
allocation of resources may be controlled by government through the use of 
quotas, rationing and outright permits. 
 
viii) Integration: 
 
Integration in resource management is a conservation measure because it 
maximizes over a period of time, the sum of goods and services that can be had

===== PAGE 6 =====
66 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
from a resource, or a resource complex such as river valley. This is preferable to 
maximize certain benefits from a single resource at the expense of other benefits 
or other resources. Integration is a central objective of planning. 
 
 
2. National Policy On The Environment  
 The National Policy on the Environment which integrates the three elements of 
sustainable development: economic, social and cultural development and environmental 
conservation was formulated and approved in 2002. The Policy aims at continued 
economic, social and cultural progress and enhancement of the quality of life of 
Malaysians through environmentally sound and sustainable development. It is based in 
eight (8) inter-related and mutually supporting principles set to harmonize economic 
development goals with environmental imperatives:-  
 
 Stewardship of the Environment  
 Conservation of the Nature‟s Vitality and Diversity  
 Continuous Improvement in the Quality of the Environment  
 Sustainable Use of Natural Resources  
 Integrated Decision-making  
 Role of the Private Sector  
 Commitment and Accountability  
 Active Participation in the International Community  
 
In keeping abreast with the country‟s rapid economic development and to meet with the 
nation‟s aspiration for an improved quality of life, the National Policy on the Environment 
serves as an important guide to all stakeholders to ensure that the environment is clean, 
safe, healthy and productive.  
 
2.1  Environmental Quality Act, 1974  
The legislation that is related to the prevention, abatement, control of pollution and 
enhancement of the environment in Malaysia is the Environmental Quality Act, 1974. 
The Act restricts the discharge of wastes into the environment in contravention of the 
acceptable conditions. To date 38 sets of Regulations and Orders as per Appendix 
Ahave been introduced and enforced. The Director General of Environmental Quality

===== PAGE 7 =====
67 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
has been appointed by the Minister to administer this Act and any regulations and 
orders made thereunder.  
 
 
 
 
2.2  Environmental Requirements  
Under the Environmental Quality Act (EQA), 1974 and the Regulations thereunder, 
industrial activities are required to obtain the following approvals from the Director 
General of Environmental Quality prior to project implementation:  
 
i) Environmental Impact Assessment reports - under Section 34A of the EQA, 
1974 (forprescribed activities); 
ii) Site suitability evaluation (for non-prescribed activities);  
iii) Written permission to construct - under Section 19 of the EQA, 1974 (for 
prescribed  
premises-scheduled wastes treatment and disposal facilities, 
crude palm oil mills  and raw natural rubber processing mills);  
iv) License to use and occupy prescribed premises and prescribed conveyances - 
under Section 18 of the EQA, 1974.  
 
2.3  Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) For PrescribedActivities  
i) Prescribed Activities  
All prescribed activities need to obtain EIA approval from the Director General of 
Environment prior to the giving of approval by the relevant Federal or State 
Government authority for the implementation of the project. The Approving 
Authority is the Government Authority that has the task of deciding, whether or not 
a project should proceed.  
 
Every industrial proposal should be examined by the investor to see whether an 
environmental impact assessment (EIA) needs to be conducted. A prospective 
investor should therefore first of all determine whether or not a proposed venture 
is categorized as prescribed activity as stipulated in the Environmental Quality 
(Prescribed Activities) (Environmental Impact Assessment) Order 1987, 
(Appendix B).

===== PAGE 8 =====
68 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
If the proposed venture is categorised as a “prescribed activity‟ under the 
Environmental Quality (Prescribed Activities) (Environmental Impact Assessment) 
Order 1987 (Appendix B), an EIA study needs to be conducted and the EIA 
report has to be submitted to the Director General of Environmental Quality for 
approval. The project is not allowed to proceed unless approval of the EIA report 
has been granted.  
 
Due to the sensitivity of the project and polluting potential (significant impacts) 
from the construction and/or operations, some of the prescribed activities have 
been required to go through the Detailed EIA Procedures which involves public 
participation. Those activities are as in Appendix C.  
 
ii) EIA Study and Report  
 
An EIA Study has to be conducted by competent individuals who are registered 
with the Department of Environment under the EIA Consultant Registration 
Scheme. The DOE will reject EIA reports which are conducted by individuals who 
are not registered with the Department. As such, the project proponent or EIA study 
team leader has to ensure that all members in the EIA study team are registered 
with the Department of Environment. The list of registered EIA Consultants 
(including Subject Consultants and Assistant Consultants) is available at the 
Department of Environment website (www.doe.gov.my). Details on the registration 
scheme are also available at the website (EIA Consultant Registration Guidance 
Document).  
 
The preparation of EIA reports by registered EIA consultants shall be in accordance 
with the guidelines prescribed by the Director General of Environment and other 
relevant guidelines published by other agencies. “A Handbook of Environmental 
Impact Assessment Guidelines” (fourth edition) 2007 has been prepared to assist 
project proponents understand the objectives of EIA, procedures for carrying out 
EIA studies and guidelines on preparation of EIA reports. Subsequently EIA 
Guidelines for specific activities were developed and published by the Department 
of Environment (list in Appendix D). The handbook can be obtained from the 
headquarters of the Department of Environment, Putrajaya, the State Offices of the 
Department of Environment and the office of the representative of the Department

===== PAGE 9 =====
69 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
of Environment at the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (MIDA). 
Addresses and telephone numbers of these offices are as per Appendix E.  
 
 
iii) EIA Procedure  
 
There are two EIA procedures adopted in Malaysia, namely the Preliminary EIA 
and the Detailed EIA, that can be described as follows:  
 
(a) Preliminary EIA  
Preliminary EIA is assessment of impacts due to those activities that are 
prescribed. The Preliminary EIA report is reviewed by a Technical 
Committee consisting of the Department of Environment State Offices and 
other relevant government agencies. 
 
The procedure for Preliminary EIA is as shown in Appendix F1. The number 
of Preliminary EIA report to be submitted to the Department of Environment 
State Offices for review is 12 copies, and 3 copies plus 2 softcopies of the 
Executive Summary of the Preliminary EIA report, to the Department of 
Environment Headquarters and relevant State Office.  
 
(b) Detailed EIA  
 
Detailed EIA is a procedure undertaken for those projects with 
major/significant impacts to the environment. The procedure for Detailed EIA 
is as shown in Appendix F2. The Detailed EIA involves EIA report display 
for the public and affected community to comment. Activities which need to 
go through the Detailed EIA procedure, are listed in Appendix C. 
Notwithstanding the list in Appendix C, the Director General of Environment 
may request a Detailed EIA for other prescribed activities as he deems 
necessary. For projects which have been determined to require a Detailed 
EIA, the project initiator must submit the terms of reference (TOR) for DOE‟s 
approval, in accordance to the format outlined in specific EIA guidelines. The 
number of copies of TOR to be submitted to the Department of Environment

===== PAGE 10 =====
70 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
is 35 copies. The number of Detailed EIA report to be submitted to the 
Department of Environment Headquarters for review is 50 copies.  
 
For an industrial project, the EIA generally would assist in determining site suitability as 
well as the necessary environmental control and mitigation measures. The objectives 
of EIA are summarised as follows:  
 To examine and select the best from the project options available;  
 To identify, predict and assess significant residual environmental impacts;  
 To recommend and incorporate into the project plan, appropriate abatement and 
mitigating measures; and  
 To identify the environmental costs and benefits of the project to the community.  
 
2.4  
Site Suitability Evaluation For Non-Prescribed Activities  
One of the most important procedures which have an immediate bearing on the period 
of processing and condition of approval on environmental ground is the SITE 
SUITABILITY for the proposed project. Irrespective of whether the proposed industrial 
activity is going to be sited within an industrial estate or otherwise, it should be 
developed and managed with environmentally sound control measures. Therefore, all 
potential industrial sites for the establishment of new industrial activities which are NOT 
subject to EIA Order, 1987, particularly the Small and Medium Scale Industries (SMIs), 
are advised to refer to the Department of Environment for consideration and advice on 
site suitability.  
 
In considering the suitability, the site is evaluated in terms of its compatibility with 
respect to the gazetted structure/local plans, surrounding landuse, provision of set-
backs or buffer zones, the capacity of the area to receive additional pollution load, and 
waste disposal requirements. Details on the appropriate buffer zone with respect to a 
specific category of industry can be obtained from “Guidelines for the Siting and Zoning 
of Industries‟ prepared by DOE. An outline of the guidelines is given in Appendix G.  
 
For potentially hazardous* type of industries, the project proponent may be required to 
submit a RISK ASSESSMENT study to the Department of Environment as part of the 
site consideration, in accordance with the EIA Guidelines For Risk Assessment 2004, 
established by the DOE. [Note: *Hazardous Industry: Any industry or installation which

===== PAGE 11 =====
71 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
has the potential for causing injury threat to health, death and damage to property or 
the environment].  
 
The Term of Reference for the preparation of an EIA report for proposed industrial 
projects located within gazetted and EIA approved industrial estates is as in Appendix 
H. The scopes to be studied in the EIA report are not restricted to the information in 
this Appendix. The EIA report has to be more specific in terms of the proposed site and 
project.  
 
2.5  
Licence To Occupy Prescribed Premises And Prescribed Conveyances  
A licence is required to occupy and operate prescribed premises namely as below:  
i) Crude palm oil mills, 
ii) Raw natural rubber processing mills, and  
iii) treatment and disposal facilities of scheduled wastes  
 
Application shall be made after obtaining written permission and written approval. 
Licensing fee will be charged for every licence issued for palm oil, raw natural rubber 
processing mills and facilities for treatment and disposal of schedule waste, and 
prescribed conveyances.  
 
Starting from 15 August 2005, licence is required to use prescribed conveyances as 
stipulated in the Environmental Quality (Prescribed Conveyance) (Scheduled Wastes) 
Order 2005. Conveyance which is categorized as prescribed conveyance namely: any 
vehicle or ship of any description which is:-  
i) propelled by a mechanism contained within itself;  
ii) constructed or adapted to be used on land or water; and  
iii) used for the movement, transfer, placement or deposit of scheduled wastes.  
 
Applications for the licence shall be made after obtaining written permission and/ or 
written approval.  
 
2.6 Notification For A New Source Of Sewage, Industrial Effluents And Leachate  
 
Discharge Or Release  
 
Starting from October 2009:-

===== PAGE 12 =====
72 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
i) no person shall, without prior written notification to the Director General, 
discharge or release or permit the discharge or release of sewage onto or into 
any soil, or any inland waters or Malaysian waters. The written notification to the 
Director General shall be in the form as specified in the First Schedule of the 
Environmental Quality (Sewage) Regulations, 2009 (P.U.(A) 432/2009).  
 
ii) no person shall, without prior written notification to the Director General, carry 
out any work on any solid waste transfer station or landfill, or construct on any 
land any facility or building that may result in a new source of leachate 
discharge or release. The written notification to the Director General shall be 
accompanied by the information as as specified in the First Schedule of the 
Environmental Quality (Control of Pollution From Solid Waste Transfer Station 
And Landfill) Regulations, 2009 (P.U.(A) 433/2009).  
 
iii) no person shall, without prior written notification to the Director General-  
a) carry out any work on any premises that may result in a new source of 
discharge of industrial effluent or mixed effluent; 
b) construct on any land, building or facility designed or used for a purpose that 
may cause the land or building or facility to result in a new source of 
discharge of industrial effluent or mixed effluent;  
c) make or cause or permit to be made any change of, to, or in any plant, 
machine, or equipment used or installed at the premises that causes a 
material change in the quantity or quality of the discharge or release from an 
existing source; or  
d) carry out upgrading work of an existing industrial effluent treatment system 
that may result in a material change in the quantity and quality of the 
discharge or release.  
The written notification to carry out any work, construction, or upgrading, or to make 
any change shall be submitted to the Director General in the form as specified in the 
Second Schedule of the (Industrial Effluent) Regulations, 2009 (P.U.(A) 434/2009). 
 
2.7  Gaseous Emission  
For industries emitting gaseous and air emission, they are required to comply with the 
following air emission standards for the control of air pollution and gaseous emissions:-

===== PAGE 13 =====
73 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
i) Emission Standards from Environmental Quality (Clean Air) Regulations  2014 
(Appendix J1- Standard must update release CA 2014) 
ii) Recommended Malaysian Air Quality Guidelines (Ambient Standards) 
(Appendix J2)  
 
All industrial projects subject to EIA shall be designed and operated using Best 
Available Techniques (BAT) in achieving a high and acceptable level of protection for 
the environment.  
 
2.8  Sewage, Industrial Effluent And Leachate Discharge  
Industries discharging sewage, industrial effluent and leachate are required to comply 
with the following relevant discharge limits as stipulated in their respective regulations:-  
 
i) Sewage discharge standards. (Appendix K1)  
ii) Industrial effluent discharge limits. (Appendix K2)  
iii) Leachate discharge standards (Appendix K3)  
 
2.9  Control Use Of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS)  
ODS are categorised as environmental hazardous substance under the Environmental 
Quality Act, 1974 (Amendment) 1996. These substances are listed as per Appendix L. 
New investments relating to the use of these substances are prohibited. Existing 
industries are encouraged to develop and use substitutes and to change their ODS 
dependent processes as soon as possible.  
 
2.10 
Scheduled Wastes Management  
Malaysia has developed a comprehensive set of legal provisions related to the 
management of toxic and hazardous wastes. The regulation was based on the cradle 
to grave principle where generation,  storage, transportation, treatment and disposal 
are regulated. A facility which generates, stores, transports, treats or disposes 
scheduled waste is subject to the following regulations:  
i) Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005;  
ii) Environmental Quality (Prescribed Conveyance) (Scheduled Wastes) Order 
2005;  
iii) Environmental Quality (Prescribed Premises) (Scheduled Wastes Treatment 
and Disposal Facilities) Order 1989;

===== PAGE 14 =====
74 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
iv) Environmental Quality (Prescribed Premises) (Scheduled Waste Treatment and 
Disposal Facilities) Regulations 1989;  
v) Customs (Prohibition of Export) Order (Amendment)(No. 2) 1993, and;  
vi) Customs (Prohibition of Import) Order (Amendment)(No. 2) 1993.  
 
A summary of the environmental requirements on scheduled wastes is given in 
Appendix M and the list of scheduled wastes is as per Appendix N.  
 
2.11 Incentives For The Storage, Treatment And Disposal Or Toxic And Hazardous 
 Wastes  
To encourage proper industrial waste management, the following incentives are 
currently available:  
 
i) Pioneer Status incentive for 5 years to companies which are principally engaged 
in an integrated operation for the storage, treatment and disposal of toxic and 
hazardous wastes;  
 
ii) As a further incentive for both the above categories of companies, the 
Government also extends the current import duty and sales tax exemption 
scheme for machinery, equipment, raw materials and components.  
 
All facilities for storage, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes must 
be approved by the Department of Environment before the application is made for the 
incentives.  
 
2.12 Incentives For The Installation Of Pollution Control Equipment  
Under Income Tax Act 1967, Income Tax (Qualifying Plant Allowances) (Control 
Equipment) Rules 1998, the Government has provided special capital allowance 
incentive for the Companies which install pollution control equipment in the setting up 
of the plants. This allowance is at initial rate 40% and an annual rate of 20% for the 
qualifying plants stipulate under Schedule 3 of Income Tax Act 1997.  
 
 
3 Environmental Hazard Control 
3.1  Environmental Hazards

===== PAGE 15 =====
75 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
i) Air 
Air pollution may be found in large cities throughout the world; its sources are often 
attributed to automobile exhaust and industrial emissions and may be aggravated 
by climate and geography. Specifically, particulate matter (PM), or particle pollution, 
consisting of fine particles 2.5 µm or smaller in diameter, may enter the lungs and 
cause serious health problems. Travelers should be aware that global long-term 
average PM2.5 concentrations have been estimated to exceed the World Health 
Organization’s Air Quality PM2.5 Interim Target-1 (35 µg/m3 annual average) in 
eastern and central Asia and North Africa. 
 
Although the harmful effects of air pollution are difficult to avoid when visiting some 
cities, limiting strenuous activity and not smoking can help. Any risk to healthy 
short-term travelers to such areas is probably small, but people with preexisting 
health conditions (such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or heart 
disease) could be more susceptible. Avoiding dust clouds and areas of heavy dust 
or haze is wise. 
 
 
ii) Water 
Rivers, lakes, and oceans may be contaminated with organic or inorganic chemical 
compounds (such as heavy metals or other toxins); harmful algal blooms 
(cyanobacteria) that can be toxic both to fish and to people who eat the fish, or who 
swim or bathe in the water; and pathogens from human and animal waste that may 
cause disease in swimmers. Such hazards may not be immediately apparent in a 
body of water. Available drinking water may also be contaminated;  
 
Extensive water damage after major hurricanes and floods increases the likelihood 
of mold contamination in buildings. Travelers may visit flooded areas overseas as 
part of emergency, medical, or humanitarian missions. Mold is a more serious 
hazard for people with conditions such as impaired host defenses or mold allergies. 
To prevent exposure that could result in adverse health effects from disturbed mold, 
people should adhere to the following recommendations: 
 
a) Avoid areas where mold contamination is obvious.

===== PAGE 16 =====
76 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
b) Use personal protective equipment (PPE), such as gloves, goggles, and a 
tight-fitting approved N-95 respirator. Travelers should take sufficient PPE 
with them, as these may be scarce in the countries visited. 
c) Keep hands, skin, and clothing clean and free from mold-contaminated dust. 
d) Review the CDC guidance, Mold Prevention Strategies and Possible Health 
Effects in the Aftermath of Hurricanes and Major Floods which provides 
recommendations for dealing with mold in these settings. 
 
iii) Radiation 
Natural background radiation levels can vary substantially from region to region, but 
these natural variations are not a health concern for either the traveler or resident 
population. Travelers should be aware of regions known to have been 
contaminated with radioactive materials, such as the areas surrounding the 
Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine and the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power 
plant in Japan. 
 
The Chernobyl plant is located 100 km (62 miles) northwest of Kiev. This 1986 
accident contaminated regions in 3 republics—Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia—with 
the highest radioactive ground contamination within 30 km (19 miles) of Chernobyl. 
 
The Fukushima Daiichi plant is located 240 km (150 miles) north of Tokyo. The 
area within a 20-km (32-mile) radius of the plant is restricted, and Japanese 
authorities also advised evacuation from locations farther away to the northwest of 
the plant. This incident occurred in 2011, and as Japanese authorities continue to 
clean the affected areas and monitor the situation, travel advisories may change. 
US travelers are advised to check the website of the US embassy in Tokyo for up-
to-date information. There are no travel advisories for Tokyo or any city or region 
south of Tokyo. Travelers who choose to reside for >1 year within 80 km of the 
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant should consult with local authorities to receive 
guidance on expected levels of radiation and recommendations for reducing 
exposure to radiation. In addition, pregnant women, children, and the elderly should 
avoid residing within 30 km of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plant. 
 
More than 450,000 travelers to the United States originate from Japan each month. 
During the height of the Fukushima releases, there was some concern about those

===== PAGE 17 =====
77 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
travelers bringing contamination into the United States with them. Based on 
radiologic contamination screening at points of entry into the United States, 3 
travelers arriving from Japan after the incident had low levels of contamination and 
were not considered to pose a health hazard to themselves or others. 
 
In most countries, known areas of radioactive contamination are fenced or marked 
with signs. These areas should not be trespassed. Any traveler seeking long-term 
(more than a few months) residence near a known or suspected contaminated area 
should consult with staff of the nearest US embassy and inquire about any 
applicable advisories in that area regarding drinking water quality or purchase of 
meat, fruit, and vegetables from local farmers. Radiation emergencies are rare 
events. In case of such an emergency, however, travelers should follow instructions 
provided by local emergency and public health authorities. If such information is not 
forthcoming, US travelers should immediately seek advice from the nearest US 
embassy. 
 
Natural disasters (such as floods) may also displace industrial or clinical radioactive 
sources. In all circumstances, travelers should exercise caution when they 
encounter unknown objects or equipment, especially if they bear the radioactive 
symbol. Travelers who encounter a questionable object should notify authorities. 
 
3.2 Control Of Specific Environmental Hazards 
 Water and food Quality standards are set for the physical, chemical and biological 
characteristics of drinking water and monitored throughout the water treatment and 
distribution network through the householdtap.  Among the battery of tests and 
specified limits are those relating to pH, microorganisms including marker agents such 
as faecal coliform bacteria (E coli), Cryptosporidium and Giardia lamblia, chlorination 
by-products, dissolvedmetals, salts and metalloids (lead, mercury, arsenic, etc.), 
organic matter and radon.   
 
 Biological and chemical testing is also carried out in the food industry, where, as with 
water safety, the approach is typically based on the principles of the Hazard Analysis 
and Critical Control Points (HACCP), which seeks to identifypotential hazard points, so 
that key actions, known as Critical Control Points (CCP's) can be taken to reduce or

===== PAGE 18 =====
78 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
eliminate the risk of the hazards being realized. The system is used at all stages of 
food production and preparation processesincluding packaging, distribution, etc. 
 
The air quality monitoring network has 51 monitoring station of which 44 are designed 
to measure Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), 
Particulate Matter (PM10) and Ozone (O3) and 7 are designed to measure PM10 only. In 
addition, there are 25 station for measuring total suspended particulates (TSP), PM10 
and heavy metal. The air quality status for Malaysia is determined and disseminate to 
the Air Pollution Index (API). To determine API for a given time period, the sub-index 
values (sub-API) for five air pollutants included in the API system are first calculated for 
the air quality data collected from the Continuous Air Quality Monitoring  stations. The 
corresponding air quality data are subjected to the necessary quality control processes 
and quality assurance procedures, prior to the sub-index calculations. The API value 
reported for a given time period represents the highest API value among all the sub-
APIs calculated during that particular time period. Table below shows the API values 
and the level of pollution and the health measure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
API 
 
 
Status 
 
Level of Pollution 
0–50  
Good Low 
no ill effects on health 
51–100  
Moderate  
Moderate pollution, no ill effects on health 
201–300 
Very unhealthy 
Significant aggravation of symptoms and decreased 
exercise tolerance in persons with heart or lung disease 
301–500 
Hazardous 
Severe aggravation of symptoms and a danger to health 
Above 500 Emergency 
Severe aggravation of symptoms and a danger to health 
 
The government authorities are required to review and assess the current, and likely 
future, air quality objectives. Measures and action plan implemented to achieve clean 
air may include:

===== PAGE 19 =====
79 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
 work with relevant authorities responsible for highways and/or environmental 
regulation on possible emissions reduction measures; 
 local traffic management schemes, including use of low emission zones and 
congestion charging in some areas where appropriate; 
 commitment to developing or promoting green travel plans and/or to using 
cleaner-fuelled vehicles; 
 information dissemination to the public; 
 partnerships with bus or fleet operators to deliver cleaner, quieter vehicles in 
return for better bus lanes or more flexible delivery arrangements. 
 
Noise is a complex exposure, as its effects on health and well-being are function of 
multiple parameters, including: its intensity, its duration, its intermittency, its nature and 
quality, and itsorigin.  Loud noise may cause deafness, but constant background noise 
(e.g. from heavy traffic) is often tolerated better than intermittent noise from a 
neighbour.  The nuisance value of noise is more than just the level of sound,and the 
sources of noise that is most often the source of complaints is neighbours. The 
Department of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) have begun to 
generate noise maps to provide an overview of the ambient noise climate in cities and 
major transportation sources in England.  The mapping was carriedout in line with the 
Department’s work to implement the EU’s Environmental Noise Directive. 
 
Ionizing and electro-magnetic radiation Monitoring and protection against radiation 
risks covers a number of important areas:  
 The government recommends that households in high radon areas have radon 
monitoring carried out for a test period of three months.  There are various 
engineering solutions available to reduce levels if found to be above the 
actionlimit of 200 Bq.m-3. 
 Workers in the nuclear industry, or in other fields where there is exposure to 
ionizing radiation (e.g. medical imaging), are required to wear radiation badges 
to monitor personal exposure. Removal from further exposure is required if 
apersonal dose limit is reached. 
For non-ionizing radiation sources, there are published guidelines on exposure limits to 
static magnetic fields and to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields 
(up to 300 GHz). The guidelines advise basic restrictions toprovide protection against 
the established adverse health effects of exposure.

===== PAGE 20 =====
80 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
 
 
A disease cluster implies any unusual aggregation of cases of illness or disease 
that are grouped in space and time.  The concept is somewhat complicated, however, 
because it begs the question of what isunusual.  
 
 
The issue often arises that someone notices an apparently high number of cases of 
disease in a particular street or locality, and wonders whether there might be a 
connection with a local environmental problem.  But in suchcircumstances it is very 
difficult to interpret the significance of the observation, as the cases may reflect no 
more than normal variation in time and space.  The difficulty lies in the fact that the 
hypothesis of an unusual level ofdisease occurrence is formulated after seeing that 
there appears to be a high number of cases. 
 
 
A formal statistical test might indicate a higher than average number of cases 
locally but that should not be surprising as the only reason one is looking is because 
someone has noticed that there does appear to be more cases thanusual.  But it may 
be no more than a chance occurrence.  The difficulty is that the hypothesis of a 
‘cluster’ is post hoc – developed after the observation – and therefore almost 
impossible to interpret appropriately. 
 
 
Because of this most epidemiologists realise that there is usually very limited 
scientific and public health value in investigating the majority of observations of 
disease clusters.  These arguments were very well articulated byRothman (1990), who 
concluded that: 
 
i) With very few exceptions, there is little scientific or public health purpose to 
investigate individual disease clusters at all; 
ii) There is likewise very little reason to study overall patterns of disease clustering 
in space-time; and 
iii) As a consequent of points 1 and 2, no statistical methodologies are needed to 
refine our study of disease clusters or clustering in general. 
 
And indeed, in practice it has been found that very few cluster investigations ever 
reveal an apparent underlying environmental cause.  Most such investigations are 
inconclusive.

===== PAGE 21 =====
81 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
 
However, it is recognized that apparent disease clusters do have to be taken seriously, 
if only to allay public concerns, and various proposals have been made about staged 
investigations that only lead to formal epidemiological studieswhen the case appears 
very strong.

===== PAGE 22 =====
82 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-3:2015-M06/P(4/4) 
MukaSurat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  21 
SOALAN/QUESTION: 
 
1. Explain the environtment  conservation concept. 
.................................................................................................................................... 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
 
2. What activities need through Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) ? 
................................................................................................................................... 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
3. How Malaysian goverment control the management of toxic and hazardous wastes? 
.................................................................................................................................... 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. EnvironmentalQualityAct 1974 (Act 127): regulations, rules&orders,(2009) ISBN 978-
967891-934-0 
2. (http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2014/chapter-2-the-pre-travel-
consultation/water-disinfection-for-travelers)