 
1 
 
 
 
        
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE 
AND NAME 
 Z-009-4:2015  CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO AND 
TITLE 
 
CA06 EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION COLLABORATION 
 
NO DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
06.01. APPLY EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 
06.02. FORMULATE CONSTRUCTIVE SPEECH 
06.03. ADHERE TO EFFECTIVE PRESENTATION  
           METHODOLOGY 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE : EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION SKILL  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE : 
 
This information sheet is intended to describe the requirement to demonstrate effective 
listening skills and effective communication in negotiation and maintain and ensure 
effective communication collaboration. The person who is competent in this CA shall be 
able to apply effective communication, formulate constructive presentational speech and 
adhere to effective presentational methodology. 
 
 
             
 
 
 JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
 KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
 ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
 PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
 62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
 
1.  Introduction To Effective Communication 
     1.1 Communication is a convey information between two or more people. Both parties   
      requires sending and receiving message in both directions. A sender transmits a  
      message and must ensure that the message is delivered clearly. A listener takes  
      delivery of the message to complete a cycle of communication. 
 
    1.2  Effective communication takes place only when the listener clearly understands the  
     message that the speaker intended to send. This will ensure a smooth flow of idea  
     and understanding between both parties and prevent misunderstanding.  
                                    
Figure 1 – Effective Communication Cycle 
 
    1.3 Beside the words you use, effective communication combines a set of skills  
    including nonverbal communication, engaged listening, managing stress in the  
    moment, the ability to communicate assertively, and the capacity to recognize and  
    understand your own emotions and those of the person you’re communicating with. 
        
 
2. Benefit Of Effective Communication In Workplace 
    2.1  Reduces conflict. 
    he primary reason for the occurrence of conflict is misunderstood communication.  
    Learning effective communication skills helps a person to be an effective communicator.  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  8 
    The person is then able to resolve conflicts, build harmony and bridge communication  
    gaps, which created conflict. 
 2.2 : Helps in achieving goals. 
 Effective communication helps a person to get what they expects out of life. This makes  
 they capable of communicating thoughts in such a way that people understand instantly.  
 Thus, they offer you the resources, which are you require to achieve your dreams and  
 goals. 
 
 2.3 : Strengthens relationships. 
 Effective communication helps people understand what they want and expect from  
 each other. This helps to build strong personal relationships between them. 
 
2.4 : Better acceptance of ideas. 
Effective communication is very broad concept and helps to discover the wants and needs  
of others. You can thus adjust your presentation in order to match their needs. Gradually 
people know that you try to understand them rather than making them understand your 
needs they will gladly adopt your ideas. 
 
2.5 : Improves job satisfaction 
Efficient communication among employees helps to improve job satisfaction. All  
employees feel that their presence makes difference to the organization. Bosses feel that  
their orders and requests are being cared for. 
 
2.6 : Helps to save time. 
With an increase in competition in every field of life time has become a crucial factor. Thus  
a choice of communication channel such as phone, fax, email and face to face for 
transferring information can help in saving a lot of time and money. 
 
2.7 : Easy promotions. 
Effective communicators have greater chances of being promoted in their jobs. 
 
3. Barriers To Effective Communication 
    3.1 : Ineffective communication can always occur and lead to communication breakdown  
    as both parties fail to deliver or process the received message. Without constant  
    sending and feedback in communication, the parties will not be able to understand  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  8 
    and respond appropriately to the idea of the others and thus, cannot co-operate.  
    Without good communication, there will be no teamwork in the workplace and there  
    sure to be misunderstandings and conflict.   
             
     3.2  Ineffective communication is seen as a problems cause by 'barriers'. Those barriers  
      includes:  
            i) Physical distraction. 
               The elements of the surrounding such as poor lighting, background noises and 
               atmosphere can really drive off your focus span during communication.  
 
           ii)  Attitude 
                If you feel strong emotions like angered or unhappy, you will most likely feel  
                uncomfortable to listen or even speak with someone. This will not only halt the  
                effectiveness of your communication but also make you less productive and co- 
                operative. Emotions can also interfere with your confidence in facing others and  
                thus, make you less of a dependable person in other's eyes.  
 
           iii) Channel barriers 
                Sometime. if you are trying to send instruction to someone, it would be more ideal  
                to have it in written form rather than telling them verbally, or else it would be  
                difficult to follow through. People who are unaware of how they should  
                communicate could get in a lot of problem. 
 
           iv) Stereotype 
                When you have stereotypical thoughts about someone base on their background  
                and culture, it would be hard for you to communicate effectively as you won't have  
                enough trust in them. Holding stereotypical thoughts about someone else who  
                simply put a barrier between you and them.  
 
           v)  Language barrier  
                In communication, language barriers can happen anytime. Everyone have  
                their own mother tongue language as well as their own interpretation of  
                certain words and  phrases. Thus, conflicting language might occur and the  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  8 
                communicators might not be able to understand each other.   
 
           vi) Time barrier 
                Choosing when to approach a person to discuss something with them is very  
                important because if you do not choose the appropriate time, the person whom 
                you are trying to deliver the message to might not be interested in listening to  
                you.  
 
          vii) Structural problems in the organization 
                If the structure in an organization is unclear, then members of the organization  
                might have problems communicating as they don't know who and when to  
                communicate. New members should be instructed clearly  to prevent any  
                communication mishap or confusion.   
 
         viii) Lack of knowledge on the subjects 
               Lack of understanding on the subject would make communication difficult for  
               both the sender and the receiver. Usually, people communicate easier when  
               the subject of matter is something that both of them are familiar with. If the  
               sender is not sure about the matter he is communicating, then the receiver  
               would be troubled in understanding as well.  
 
          ix) Information overload 
               Processing information takes time and if communication does not goes at a  
               pace where both parties can have enough time to carry out their thought  
               process, then it will cause communication breakdown as concentration and  
               interest might be haltered.  
 
          x.  Assumptions 
               Assuming something without clarification is a very dangerous thing to do.  
               When you assume the wrong information, it is very likely that you will make  
               wrong decisions and conclusion. This could cause many extended problems  
               and lead to conflicts as well.  
 
 
   3.3 : Communication barriers can be avoided if you know how to deal with them correctly.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  8 
            Here are some advice to overcome these problems:-  
            i) Be attentive of who you are communicating with. If they have trouble getting your 
               message, you should know how to adjust your communication method in order to 
               get through with them.  
 
        ii) Be patience is the key to effective communication. You must never rush anything  
            and take your time in order to make communication work. 
 
       iii) Never assume because you could interpretative the foul information and carry  
            out wrong decisions or responds. Always clarify something if you are unclear.  
 
       iv) Be friendly and open-minded towards others you are co-operating with. You must 
            never judge others or let your feelings towards someone interfere with your work.  
            Also, you must be emphatic towards other to work out the problem rather than just  
            let things be. Workplace often encourage those who co-operate well with others no  
            matter what.   
 
          v) Be aware of who you are communicating with and how you should communicate  
              with them. This would help you approach that person and approach in a better  
              manner and style and prevent and problems that might occur. 
 
4. Skill for Effective Communication  
    4.1 Following are the main skills one should have to master to become an effective  
     communicator. 
           i) Staying focused on topic 
              When you deal with an argument, most of the times, the discussion goes out of  
              topic and the situation can become quite complicated. Staying focused is one of  
              the best skills for communicating under pressure. If you go out of focus, there is  
              a high chance that the end result of the communication may not be effective. 
 
         ii) Listening Carefully 
             Listening well means understanding the information and the emotion being  
             communicated. When you really listen, you’re engaged with what’s being said,  
            you’ll hear the subtle intonations in someone’s voice that tell you how that person  
            is feeling and the emotions they’re trying to communicate.    

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
        iii) Pay Attention to nonverbal signals (body language) 
            When we communicate, we mainly using nonverbal signals such facial   
            expressions, body movement and gestures, eye contact, posture, the tone of voice  
            and breathing. The way you look, listen, move, and react to another person tells  
            them more about how you’re feeling. Developing the ability to understand and use  
            nonverbal communication can help you connect with others, express what you  
            really mean, navigate challenging situations, and build better relationships at home  
 
           and work. 
        
      iv) Understanding Others' Point of Views 
          If you can really see through their point of view, you can actually explain yours in  
          a clear and applicable way. 
 
       v) Empathy When Criticizing 
          Sometimes, we become really defensive when someone criticizes us. In 
          communication, it is really important to listen to the other person's pain and  
          difficulties and respond with empathy. At the same time, try to extract the facts  
          and the truth in what they say. 
 
       vi) Assert yourself 
           Being assertive means expressing your thoughts, feelings, and needs in an open 
           and honest way, while standing up for yourself and respecting others. Assertive  
           expression makes for clear communication and can help boost self-esteem and  
           decision-making.  
.  
     vii) Compromise if Necessary 
          Communication is not about winning, it's about getting things done. So you may  
          have to compromise in the process.  
 
   viii) Take a Time-Out if Necessary 
         To communicate effectively, you need to learn how to manage stress. When  
          you’re stressed, you’re more likely to misread other people, send confusing or  
          off-putting nonverbal signals. If you can quickly relieve stress and return to a calm 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M06/P(1/2) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  8 
         state, you’ll also help to calm the other person. So take a break in the middle of the  
         discussion if ineffective communication pattern surfaced. After the break, all the  
         parties involved in the discussion will be able to constructively contribute for the  
         discussion. 
 
     ix) Compete for Your Objective 
          Although there can be a lot of obstacles, do not give up what you are fighting for. 
          Surely you may have to compromise, but clearly stand for what you believe in.             
               
 
          
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. How effective communication can take place? 
2. Whats are the benefit of effective communication at the workplace? 
3. What is a communication barrier? 
  
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://maxcommunicationmotivation.weebly.com/communication-effective-vs-
ineffective.html 
 
2. http://www.helpguide.org/articles/relationships/effective-communication.htm 
 
3. https://www.icre.pitt.edu/mentoring/effective.html 
 
4.  http://www.tutorialspoint.com/ 
 