# Z-009-1-2015\MODULE 04 SAFETY HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT AWARENESS\Kertas Penerangan 4.2a.PDF

===== PAGE 1 =====
18 
 
 
    
 
      
 
  
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-1:2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
1 (ONE) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
 
CA04 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
 
AWARENESS 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
4.1 ADHERE TO HEALTH AWARENESS ACTIVITY 
4.2 ADHERE TO SAFETY AWARENESS ACTIVITY 
4.3 ADHERE TO ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 
ACTIVITY 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
 
Mukasurat/ Page : 18 
Drpd / of    : 12 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  
SAFETY AND HEALTH WORKPLACE SYSTEM 
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the Safety and Health Workplace 
System. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to abide to Health, Safety 
and Environmental rules and regulations, hence reducing exposure to hazards and risks 
as well as incidence of work-related injury and illness. 
 
 
 
 
 JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
 KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
 ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
 PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
 62530 PUTRAJAYA 
KERTAS PENERANGAN  
(INFORMATION SHEET)

===== PAGE 2 =====
19 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1.1 Type Of Hazard 
Hazard means a source or a situation with a potential for harm in terms of human injury or 
ill health, damage to property, damage to the environment or a combination of these. 
1.1 
Hazard Identification 
 The  purpose  of  hazard  identification  is  to  highlight  the  critical  operations  of  
tasks,  that is,  those  tasks  posing  significant  risks  to  the  health  and  safety  of  
employees  as  well  as highlighting those hazards pertaining to certain equipment due 
to energy sources, working conditions or activities performed. Hazards can be divided 
into three main groups, health hazards, safety hazards, and environmental hazards. 
i) 
Health hazards 
An  occupational  health  hazard  is  any  agent  that  can  cause  illness  to  an  
individual.  A health hazard may produce serious and immediate (acute) affects, 
or may cause long-term (chronic) problems. All or part of the body may be 
affected. Someone with an occupational illness may not recognize the symptoms 
immediately. For example, noise-induced hearing loss is often difficult for the 
affected individual to detect until it is well advanced. 
 
ii) 
Safety hazards 
A safety hazard is any force strong enough to cause injury, or damage to 
property. An injury caused by a safety hazard is usually obvious. For example, a 
worker may be badly cut. Safety hazards cause harm when workplace controls 
are not adequate. Some examples of safety hazards include, but are not limited 
to - 
a) slipping/tripping hazards (such as wires run across floors); 
b) fire hazards (from flammable materials); 
c) moving parts of machinery, tools and equipment (such as pinch and nip 
points); 
d) work at height (such as work done on scaffolds); 
e) ejection of material (such as from moulding); 
f) pressure systems (such as steam boilers and pipes); 
g) vehicles (such as forklifts and trucks);

===== PAGE 3 =====
20 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
h) lifting and other manual handling operations; and 
i) working alone. 
 
1.2  
Hazard identification technique 
 
The  employer  shall  develop  a  hazard  identification  and  assessment  
methodology  taking into account the following documents and information -  
i) 
any hazardous occurrence investigation reports; 
ii) 
first aid records and minor injury records; 
iii) 
work place health protection programs; 
iv) any results of work place inspections; 
v) 
any employee complaints and comments; 
vi) any government or employer reports, studies and tests concerning the 
health and safety of employees; 
vii) any  reports  made  under  the  regulation  of  Occupational  Safety  and  
Health Act,1994 
viii) the record of hazardous substances; and 
ix) any other relevant information. 
 
2. Work Instruction, Safe Operating Procedure And Emergency Response Plan 
Making safe work procedures and practices part of standard operating procedure may 
seem a matter of common sense, but in fact an effective health and safety program for 
workers is required by the Occupational Health and Safety Regulation Without a written 
standard to refer to, whether for bed-making or respirator-wearing, there is no consistent 
guidance for workers or supervisors. Measurement of these items in the audit will include 
written safe work procedures, practices and/or instructions including: 
i) all routine and non-routine expected operations of the company 
ii) a Workplace Hazardous Materials Information System (WHMIS) 
iii) instructions that direct the first aid services, supplies and equipment to be 
provided and how employees receive that service 
iv) 
procedures addressing possible emergencies, training of workers in those 
procedures, testing their effectiveness, and evaluating and revising the 
procedures based on drills and actual emergencies.

===== PAGE 4 =====
21 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
2.1 
Work Instruction 
 
A work instruction is a tool provided to help someone to do a job correctly. This simple 
 
statement implies that the purpose of the work instruction is quality and that the target 
 
user is the worker. Safe work instructions highlight the hazards and risks in a process 
 
or task and provide information necessary to assist all workers to perform activities 
 
safely.  These instructions also assist in the training and orientation of new workers to 
 
reduce the risk of the tasks to be performed, as well as providing them with the rules 
 
and procedures necessary to ensure that they can perform their work in a safe 
 
manner. 
 
2.2  
Safe Operating Procedures (SOP) 
A safe operating procedure is a written document that provides step-by-step 
instructions on how to safely perform a particular task in the workplace. Having a safe 
operating procedure in place will help train the employees to work safely, help identify 
risks and hazards and, importantly, help demonstrate to safety regulators that 
company is committed to improving safety in your workplace. 
 
i) The Importance of Safe Operating Procedures 
Safety operating procedures are an important internal control. Industries use 
safety operating procedures to ensure owners and employees do not injure 
themselves or customers during business operations. Certain industries may be 
subject to more safety operating procedures than others. Manufacturing or 
production, energy, construction and warehousing represent a few examples of 
industries using copious safety operating procedures. Employer can also use 
safety operating procedures to limit their company liability from dangerous or 
inappropriate actions. The importances of safe operating procedures are: 
 
a. Decrease Incidents 
Safety procedures can help decrease the number of workplace incidents. 
Many companies use an employee manual or guidebook to inform and 
educate employees on safety procedures. Operational managers are 
also an important part of enforcing safety procedures. Managers are 
responsible for reviewing employee actions and making sure company 
policies provide a safe workplace. Decreasing the number of employee 
safety incidents can also help companies save money on their insurance

===== PAGE 5 =====
22 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
policies. Companies with several safety incidents are usually considered 
high risk by insurance companies. 
 
b. Maintain Certifications 
Employer may need to implement safety procedures to maintain third-
party certifications. Third-party certifications usually provide companies 
with a seal of approval for their company operations. This approval can 
help companies save money on insurance policies or improve their 
goodwill with consumers. Organizational certification is usually specific to 
business industries. Small businesses operating in the energy industry 
may receive a different certification from safety procedures than a 
company operating in the retail business industry. 
 
c. Legal Liability 
Safety procedures can help companies reduce their legal liability. Legal 
liabilities often occur when employees or customers are injured during 
the company regular course of business. Injured employees may have 
less legal options than customers. Many employees sign arbitration 
agreements that allow the company to limit their loss from safety 
procedure incidents. Customers injured from lack of safety procedures 
can sue using a lawyer or petition a watchdog group to audit the 
company. Small businesses usually have fewer resources for protecting 
themselves against major legal liabilities. Safety procedures may help 
prevent this type of exposure in the business environment. 
 
d. Improve Operations 
Companies can improve business operations through the use of safety 
procedures. Improving operations may be an unintended benefit of safety 
procedures. Business owners and managers that educate employees on 
how to best complete business functions may find new ways to improve 
the efficiency and effectiveness of the production process. Safety 
procedures may also allow employees to work quicker and improve their 
production output. This can also help drive down business costs by using 
less employees to maintain specific levels of production output.

===== PAGE 6 =====
23 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
2.3 
Emergency Response Plan (ERP) 
Emergencies can create a variety of hazards for workers in the impacted area. 
Preparing before an emergency incident plays a vital role in ensuring that 
employers and workers have the necessary equipment, know where to go, and 
know how to keep them safe when an emergency occurs. 
 
In Malaysia, the management of disaster is governed by the National Security 
Council (NSC) Directive No. 20:  Policy and Mechanism of Disaster Management 
and Relief Committee. The Directive interpreted “Disaster” and “Non-disastrous 
incidents”. In addition, at the moment, the specific act and regulation which deal 
with the safety at the workplace is the “Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) 
1994”.   
 
 
2.4 
Emergency Response Plan (ERP) Procedures 
The purpose of this procedure is to establish an emergency management 
procedure by: 
i) assigning responsibilities for Emergencies Response Plan (ERP); 
ii) providing the emergency procedures at all levels of ERP that required for 
specific local areas in each academic/administrative centre to prepare 
adequately the emergency procedures; and 
iii) managing the minimum evacuation practice requirements for each 
building. 
 
2.5 
Responsibilities, Accountabilities and Authority 
A. Head of Local Management 
i) Nominate Chief of Local Incident Commander and their Deputies as 
appropriate and submit the names to the Emergency Response 
Committee for approval and record. 
ii) In consultation with Incident Commander, Chief of Local ERP Incident 
Commander and their Deputies must develop, establish and implement 
the local set up of ERP Procedure including Local Emergency 
Instructions. 
iii) In consultation with incident Commander, Chief of Local ERP Incident 
Commander and their Deputies must identify suitable Assembly Points 
for evacuations.

===== PAGE 7 =====
24 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
iv) All development and implementation of ERP Procedure must comply with 
the requirements and arrangements of 
objectives and related 
procedures. 
v) Ensure that ERT personnel have been provided with colour-coded 
helmets and/or vests. 
vi) All changes to ERT personnel are communicated to the incident 
Commander and Emergency Response Committee. 
vii) In consultation with Local ERT, training or drill is organized and 
conducted within their “Area Responsibility” for the implementation of the 
Local Emergency Instructions. 
viii) Relevant university community in their “Area Responsibility” shall 
participate in the emergency training. 
ix) Monitor and evaluate the implementation and performance of the Local 
Emergency Instructions, from Evacuation Drill Reports, and reporting 
yearly to the Incident Commander on the implementation, with 
suggestions for improvements. 
 
B. Emergency Response Team (ERT) Personnel 
They are responsible for: 
i) implementing a set of Local Emergency Instructions for each of the areas 
and activities they control, as appropriate; 
ii) assuming responsibility for their areas and community during 
emergencies;  
iii) keeping up-to-date Local Emergency Instructions in their area; 
iv) conducting at least one evacuation drill per building per year in their 
“Area Responsibility”, and documenting the details in accordance with the 
Evacuation Drill Report;  
v) If there is overlapping in “Area Responsibilities”, the choice of ERT 
Personnel should primarily be guided by personal characteristics and 
availability rather than by considerations related to organisational or 
reporting structure. 
 
C. The Incident Commander 
He is responsible for:

===== PAGE 8 =====
25 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
i) Submitting the nominated names to the Emergency Response 
Committee for approval; 
ii) Monitoring the implementation of this procedure and related documents 
in accordance with the Incident, Accident and Emergency Management; 
iii) Conducting training and advice for the implementation of this procedure 
within “Area Responsibility”. 
 
2.6 Emergency Evacuation Procedure 
A. Local Emergency Instructions must: 
i) address the risks of fire and serious injury; 
ii) identify any other emergency situations relevant to the area; 
iii) list the steps to be followed in each case, including the method to be 
used to initiate an evacuation of the building; 
iv) make special provision for the evacuation of people with disabilities, if 
applicable to the area; and  
 
B. Emergency Floor Plans 
At least one Emergency Floor Plan signage must be displayed on each floor of 
each building. The display shall show the: 
i) Name or code of the building; 
ii) Floor level; 
iii) Location of the plan itself (e.g. “You are here”) on the particular floor; 
iv) Emergency exits; 
v) Location of fire fighting equipment; 
vi) Location of any break-glass alarm; 
vii) Location of first aid kit; 
viii) Local Emergency Instructions displayed adjacent to the floor plan. 
 
3. 
Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) 
Personal protective equipment, commonly referred to as "PPE", is equipment worn to 
minimize exposure to serious workplace injuries and illnesses. These injuries and 
illnesses may result from contact with chemical, radiological, physical, electrical, 
mechanical, or other workplace hazards. Personal protective equipment may include items 
such as gloves, safety glasses and shoes, earplugs or muffs, hard hats, respirators, or 
coveralls, vests and full body suits.

===== PAGE 9 =====
26 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
 
 
Picture 1: Personnel Protective Equipment 
 
3.1 
Proper Use Of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
All personal protective equipment should be of safe design and construction, and 
should be maintained in a clean and reliable fashion. It should fit well and be 
comfortable to wear, encouraging worker use. If the personal protective equipment 
does not fit properly, it can make the difference between being safely covered or 
dangerously exposed. When engineering, work practice, and administrative 
controls are not feasible or do not provide sufficient protection, employers must 
provide personal protective equipment to their workers and ensure its proper use. 
Employers are also required to train each worker required to use personal 
protective equipment to know: 
i) When it is necessary 
ii) What kind is necessary 
iii) How to properly put it on, adjust, wear and take it off 
iv) The limitations of the equipment 
v) Proper care, maintenance, useful life, and disposal of the equipment 
 
If PPE is to be used, a PPE program should be implemented. This program 
should address the hazards present; the selection, maintenance, and use of 
PPE; the training of employees; and monitoring of the program to ensure its 
ongoing effectiveness. Personal protective equipment is addressed in Factories 
and Machinery Acts and Regulations, General Industry, Shipyard Employment, 
Marine Terminals, and Long shoring.

===== PAGE 10 =====
27 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
4. Safety And Health Signage 
Safety signs must be used whenever a hazard or danger cannot be avoided adequately 
or reduced in another way.  Before installing safety signs an employer should examine 
whether the hazard can be avoided or reduced by collective precautions (precautions 
that protect everybody) or safer ways of doing the work.  
 
 
A safety sign provides information about safety or health and can be a signboard, 
colour, acoustic signal, verbal communication, or hand signal. A signboard is a sign 
that provides information or instruction using a combination of shape, colour and 
symbols but excludes information in writing. Employers must provide information to 
employees on the meaning and requirements of any signs used in the workplace, 
especially where text on supplementary signboards is used.  
 
4.1 
Type Of Safety Signboard 
 
Safety signboard is a sign which provides information or instructions by a 
combination of shape, colour and a symbol or pictogram which is rendered visible 
by lighting of sufficient intensity. In practice many signboards may be accompanied 
by supplementary text (e.g. ‘Fire exit’ alongside the symbol of a moving person. 
Signboards can be of the following types: 
 
Description 
Signboard 
a) prohibition sign - a sign prohibiting behaviour 
likely to increase or cause danger (e.g. ‘no 
access for unauthorized persons’); 
 
b) warning sign - a sign giving warning of a 
hazard or danger (e.g. ‘danger: electricity’) 
 
c) mandatory sign – a sign prescribing specific 
behaviour (e.g. ‘eye protection must be worn’);

===== PAGE 11 =====
28 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
d) emergency escape or first-aid sign – a sign 
giving information on emergency exits, first aid, 
or rescue facilities (e.g. ‘emergency 
exit/escape route’). 
 
Table 1: Safety Signboard 
 
 
4.2  
Colours And Shapes On Safety Signboards  
 
Safety signs and colour are useful tools to help protect the health and safety of 
 
employees and workplace visitors. 
 
Category 
Sub-category 
Colour 
 
1.1 Prohibition forbids an action 
 
 
1.2 Mandatory requires an action 
Red and black 
on white 
 
White on black 
1. Regulatory 
A circle indicates that 
an order is in force 
 
2.1 Caution indicates a potential 
hazard 
 
2.2 Danger indicates a definite 
hazard 
Black on yellow 
 
 
White on red 
2. Warning 
A 
triangle 
indicates 
caution or danger 
 
3.1 Emergency indicates first aid, 
health, fire protection, fire 
fighting and emergency 
equipment 
 
3.2 General information indicates 
permission or public 
information 
White on green 
 
 
 
 
White on blue 
3. Information 
A square indicates 
information 
Table 2:Sign Categories

===== PAGE 12 =====
29 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. 
Z-009-1:2015–M04/P(2/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  
Drpd/ of:  12 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What is the purpose of hazard identification?  
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
 
2. What is the purpose of emergency response plan? 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
3. What is the responsible of employers before providing the PPE to their employee? 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
.................................................................................................................................... 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. Factories and Machinery Act 1967 and Regulations, Pindaan Ogos 2008, ISBN 
967701156-1 
2. Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 and Regulation, (2009) Malaysia, 
Penerbitan Akta (M), ISBN-967701188-X. 
3. Garis Panduan bagi Pengenalpastian Hazard, Penaksiran Risiko dan Kawalan Risiko 
(HIRARC), ISBN 978-983-2014-62-1