 
 
KOD DAN NAMA PUSAT 
BERTAULIAH 
 
 
SOALAN PENILAIAN PENGETAHUAN (SUBJEKTIF) 
KOD UNIT CORE ABILITY  
NAMA UNIT  ABILITY  
NAMA CALON  
NO.KAD PENGENALAN  
MASA  
TARIKH  
MARKAH  
 
Arahan kepada calon: 
1.  Tulis nama dan nombor kad pengenalan calon pada ruangan yang disediakan; 
2. Calon tidak dibenarkan membuka kertas soalan sehingga dibenarkan; 
3. Calon hendaklah menjawab semua soalan; 
4. Calon dilarang membawa nota atau sebarang bahan rujukan kecuali yang 
dibenarkan. 
5. Dilarang meniru semasa penilian; dan 
6. Dilarang membawa keluar kertas soalan dari bilik peperiksaan 
 
KERTAS PENILAIAN INI MENGANDUNGI ....02.... MUKA SURAT BERCETAK 
 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

QUESTION 1 
1. Every workplace are required to have a safety and health plan and program to 
prevent accidents or unwanted incidents from occurring. The management must establish 
a clear goal and objective for the safety and health progra mme. This is to ensure that 
established safety and health programme can be continuously evaluated. The goal and 
objective has to be communicated clearly to all employees – failure of which will result in 
less employee participation in the programme. 
 
(a) List  at least three(3) benefits of HSE awareness programmes           (6 marks) 
 
(b) Give at least two(2 ) ways that management can provide visibility and involvement in 
implementing the safety and health                                                     (4 marks) 
 
(c) Briefly explain  three (3) ways to control the exposure of chemical to the workers at the 
workplace and methods can be applied.                                              (6 marks) 
 
(d) Name at least four(4) types of environmental problems that mainly can be contributed 
by the industries?                                                                                (4 marks) 
 
 
QUESTION 2 
You are engaged as a safety and health officer in a factor y which produce chemical base 
product. The first task to be conducted is to plan and implement HSE awareness 
programme in the factory.  
 
(a) Explain four(4) main points to consider when planning health, safety & env ironment 
awareness programme.                 (4 marks). 
 
(b) Explain four(4) program and at least three(3) of its contents which can be proposed 
for the success of health awareness program.               (10 marks) 
 
(c )  What is programme evaluation and the benefit of evaluating the HSE  awareness 
programme?                   (6 marks) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

SCHEMA 
 
Question 1 
 
a) It enable workers to: 
 recognize unsafe practices and conditions. It requires following of safety, health and 
environment procedures. 
 get to know all about the conditions that promote health, safety and environment at 
the workplace. 
 be willingness to take time to prevent accident. 
 have the right attitude about health, safety and environment, both for their own and 
their coworker’s. 
 prevent injury, illness and accidental damage to company property. 
 increased workers morale, satisfaction and motivation 
 Improved alertness and concentration among workers 
 
b) Management can provide visibility and involvement in implementing the safety and 
health through; 
- Commitment to safety and health policy 
- Establishment of safety and health consultative committee 
- involvement in providing resources for safety and health programme 
 
c) Three (3) ways to control the exposure of chemical to the workers at the workplace and 
methods can be applied.are; 
(i) Control  at Source – Method;  s ubstitution,  Modify process ,  Enclosure,  Local 
exhaust,  Fugitive, emission control, Isolation 
(ii) Control at Path – Methods; Guards, Isolation,Enclosure &Engineering Control , 
Housekeeping, Continuous area, monitoring, automation or  remote control 
(iii) Control at receiver– Methods; by Law &Regulations, Administration and PPE 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

d) Types of environmental problems that mainly can b e contributed by the industries 
are; 
a) Global warming 
b) Air pollutions 
c) Water pollutions 
d) Noise pollutions 
e) Soil pollutions 
 
 
Question 2 
a) The main points to consider are when planning HSE awareness program: 
i) Support and resources 
The overall success of the initiative depends on the cooperation, acceptance and 
involvement of everyone in the organizations. Early and ongoing support from senior 
management is key to the success of the programme. Support from top and senior 
management i s critical and should be visible to all staff in the organisation. When 
management leads the program and requests support from workers, the credibility of the 
rogram is enhanced. Communication from senior management promoting the program is 
one way of demonstrating commitment.  
ii) Know current situation 
To select or decide any HSE awareness programme to be conducted, designated team or 
personel must assessed: 
 current HSE situation at the workplace in terms of compliance to law and procedures; 
accident, dangerous occurances and health illness statistics; 
 current awareness level among workers regarding issues related to HSE at 
workplace; and 
 catagories of workers which the HSE issues has been determined and identified as a 
problem 

----PAGE BREAK----

iii) Target audience profile and goals 
It is important to confirm who the target audience is for intended program because 
message and delivery mechanisms will differ according to intended audience. It is equally 
important to recognize and consider the varying circumstances, needs and concerns that 
each group may have if you will be targeting different groups. Clearly defining audiences 
will allow development of effective messages, activities and plans that will address the 
needs of each group. 
 
iv) Communication plan 
Communication is vital  in ensuring successful of intended awareness programme. There 
are many resources that can be considered to support and enhance communication 
efforts. Right language for the target audience must be used. Use of technical language 
should be avoided, unless addressing a technical audience. Keep it simple and 
appropriate, easy to understand and remember, consistent and relevant, focused on one 
idea and repeated frequently. Consider using a workers briefing or meeting as the forum 
for the first communication.  
 
 
b) Four(4) program which can be proposed for the success of health awareness 
program are; 
(i) Chemical control program  
Employer has to develop and carry out programmes spelling out methods and procedures 
on safety and health in the use of chemicals at workplace which include; 
a. Cooperation employer and employee at the workplace 
b. Establish Inventory of chemicals - Chemical Register 
c. Conduct Chemical Health Risk Asessment(CHRA) 
d. Ensure Purchasing procedure, Classification and Labelling  
e. Ensure Safety Data Sheet for all chemical hazardous to health 
f. Ensure the adequacy of control measures is implemented 
 
ii) Conduct Hearing Conservation Program (HCP)  

----PAGE BREAK----

HCP is a set of carefully planned activities carried of with the aim of protecting and 
maintaining  
the hearing of employees Aspect of HCP is based on requirements under the Noise 
Exposure Regulations 1989  
 
a) Conduct noise monitoring  
b) Control of noise or used of ppe  
c) Established audiometry test  
d) Training and education program  
e) Record keeping  
 
iii.Ergonomics Programme  
The purpose of the Ergonomics Program is to establish a system for the identification, 
evaluation, and control of ergonomic risk factors in the workplace.(1) 
Components of Ergonomic Programme include; 
c) Responsibilities of  Management/Employer Employees - Workers Supervisors, 
Occupational Health Services, Environment,Health, and Safety Committee (EHS) 
d) Program Element  - Worksite Analysis and Prevention and Intervention Strategies 
e) Record Keeping - for evid ence of injuries or disorders associated with cumulative 
trauma disorders. 
 
iv. Confined Space Program  
Working in a confined space can expose a person to a very risky situation that can cause 
diseases and injury which leads to an accident and death. 
The confined space entry programme shall include at least the following elements  
a) Hazard identification - Identify all hazards associated with working in the confined 
space. 
b) Risk assessment  - Carry out the risk assessment before carrying out work 
involving entry into a confined space 

----PAGE BREAK----

c) Risk control - Based on the risk assessment, establish and implement the 
procedures and practices of hazard control that provide safe entry into the confined 
space. 
d) Stand-by person - At least one stand -by person outside the co nfined space into 
which entry is authorised for the duration of entry operations.  
e) Monitoring of multiple confined spaces - For monitoring of multiple confined 
spaces by a single stand -by person, the programme shall include the means and 
procedures to enab le the stand -by person to respond to an emergency affecting 
one or more of the confined spaces being monitored without distraction from the 
stand-by person’s responsibilities 
f) Permit system - Develop a written system for preparation, issuance, 
implementation, and cancellation of permit to work.  
g) Sign-posting - Confined space warning signages to be posted at conspicuous 
places when work is being carried out after the issuance of the permit to work.  
h) Employee training - Ensure that employees who are involved i n confined space 
operation have undergone training on confined space safety course approved by 
the Director General of DOSH and passed the examination. 
i) Equipment - Provide appropriate equipment use for testing and monitoring; 
personal protective emergency and rescue equipment; and any other equipment 
necessary for safe entry into and rescue from confined spaces 
j) Means of Communication – such as telephone or walkie talkie 
k) External hazard protection - Protection such as physical barriers to be provided to 
control potential hazards posed by pedestrians and vehicles. 
l) Identification of the duties  - identify the duties of employees to be an authorised 
entrant, stand -by person, entry supervisor, authorise d gas tester, permit issuer or 
other related personnel in entry operation. 
m) Information to the contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----



----PAGE BREAK----

(c ) Awareness program evaluation  is a systematic method for collecting, 
analyzing, and using information to answer questions about programs, particularly 
about their effectiveness and efficiency. In both the public and private sectors, 
stakeholders often want to know whether the programs they are funding, 
implementing, voting for, receiving or objecting to are producing the intended effect. 
While program evaluation  first focuses around this definition, important 
considerations often include how much the program costs per participant, how the 
program could be improved, whe ther the program is worthwhile, whether there are 
better alternatives, if there are unintended outcomes, and whether the program 
goals are appropriate and useful. In other words, evaluation of awareness 
programmes is: 
 to gain information on how to improve future awareness programs. 
 to justify the existence and budget of the training department by showing how it 
contributes to the organization’s objectives and goals; and 
 to decide whether to continue or discontinue training programs. 
 