 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM/  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP/ LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA07 CHANGE MANAGEMENT AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN/ ABILITY NO. 
AND STATEMENT 
 
07.01 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
OBJECTIVE  
07.02 OBSERVE CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
METHODOLOGY 
07.03 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
INITIATIVE 
07.04 ADHERE TO COACHING & MENTORING  
IMPLEMENTATION 
07.05 PERFORMANCE ORGANISATION BRANDING 
 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   8 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : CHANGE MANAGEMENT INITIATIVE 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
This Information Sheet is intended to describe  the requirements to maintain and ensure 
the effectiveness of change management in the organization,specifically on Change 
Management Initiative .The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to 
implement change management in accordance to the recommended methodology   
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  2 
Drpd/ of :  8 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION :  
 
1. Positive Attitude Philosophy 
 
1.1  Positive mental attitude (PMA) is the philosophy that having 
an optimistic disposition in every situation in one's life attracts positive changes 
and increases achievement. Adherents employ a state of mind that continues to 
seek, find and execute ways to win, or find a desirable outcome, regardless of 
the circumstances. It opposes negativi ty, defeatism and hopelessness.  
Optimism and hope are vital to the development of PMA 
 
1.2  Change management is attitude.  When agencies and companies are 
experiencing dramatic downsizing and shifting of jobs, planning for change 
becomes more essential than ever. 
 
1.3  Attitudes are caught, not taught. But how do you prepare work teams for 
unremitting change that affects their lives?  
 
1.4  Leadership must address the overriding issue of creating a positive 
attitude about change. Change management is an attitude, and attitudes are 
caught, not taught. Let’s take a look at a case study : 
 
i) Du Pont recently took a big step in structuring for this attitude of 
change. Training and Development, published by the American 
Society of Training and Development (ASTD), reported that Du Pont 
just moved 300 employees out of private offices into open wor k 
stations in its Flouror Productions division. Workers are now 
working in 8x8 foot, Corian -covered cubicles. Not only do these 
cubicles promote teamwork, but they result in greater productivity. 
But the workers weren't happy about the change. So Du Pont f lew 
all of the workers to Grand Rapids Michigan to visit Steelcase, the 
firm that would be outfitting the new offices. While at Steelcase, Du 
Pont employees learned a new language: 
a) Migration – moving from a private office to an individual 
screened work station 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  3 
Drpd/ of :  8 
b) Collaboration zones – meeting rooms 
c) Docking stations – workbenches 
d) Free addresses – spaces not assigned to a particular worker 
ii) Du Pont provided an experience. Experience is one step in the 
process of developing an attitude of change. Other successf ul 
attitude building experiences are teambuilding retreats, strategic 
planning sessions, focus groups, and interactive workshops with 
senior management in attendance. 
 
1.5 In any case of a change in management or restructuring, one needs to ask 
him/herself: 
i) What are you doing to develop that attitude of change with your 
staff? 
ii) What are you doing to help your staff deal with the many changes in 
their professional and personal lives? 
 
2. Initiative Management Behaviour 
 
2.1  What can the management do in softening the impact of change 
management? Here are 5 initiatives the management can offer : 
 
i) Get into the right mindset to be positive 
It’s a good idea for everyone to start each day with the right attitude. 
If we look at events in a positive way, we are more able to accept 
that things happen and so we do not blame others or ourselves  for 
it. 
 
 If we can develop a healthy attitude to ‘controlling the controllable’ 
during our working day, and in life in general, we are likely to be 
more resilient if difficult things happen to us.We will not focus on 
blaming ourselves or others for these tricky situations, but take a 
more balanced perspective. It also helps if we can understand and 
develop those factors on which our resilience is based such as self -

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  4 
Drpd/ of :  8 
belief, being able t o seek support, adaptability and emotion 
regulation. 
ii) Support employees in becoming more positive 
Helping an employee to develop their resilience levels is fundamental when 
it comes to managing the natural anxiety and uncertainty that are generated 
by certain events. This includes accepting that success will not be possible 
all of the time. 
When staff feel that negative thoughts are building up as a result of a 
disappointment or frustration, it is important for them to realise that they are 
in a bad emotional place and understand that it will not help them to resolve 
the problem. 
But they also require some form of coping mechanism. While this might 
involve seeking support from others, there are also opportunities for 
individuals to change the way that th ey think about problems and obstacles 
in order to approach them from a more positive perspective. 
  
iii) Introduce a mentoring scheme to help staff behave more positively 
When individuals are engaged in activities that they enjoy and can focus 
their skills and energies effectively, they tend to be more successful, have 
lower incidences of stress and experience a greater sense of well-being. 
  
However, there are a lot of pressures at work to distract staff from playing to 
their strengths. Discipline and assertive ness are needed to do so and to 
encourage them to enlist the help of others in areas where they are less 
strong. 
  
As a result, it can prove beneficial for individuals to work with other team 
members in reflecting on and evaluating their personal strengths . To help 
with this, you could introduce a mentoring scheme. After all, no effective 
sporting star or team would be without a coach today. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  5 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
iv) Encourage workers to record their achievements 
It’s important to introduce practical, achievable steps that don’t take too 
much time in order to help improve employees’ personal and/or 
professional development. This ranges from assisting them in gaining 
qualifications to assuming a new role or finding a better work-life balance. 
  
Having a direction and purpose helps to keep people focused when times 
are tough, so that they are able to place difficulties and challenges into the 
broader context of achieving their goals. 
To this end, encourage staff to record achievements and share their goals 
with others in order to reinforce their commitment. It may be useful for them 
to keep a personal diary and to write in it for a few minutes each day, noting 
down any successes or setbacks that they have experienced. 
v) Encourage employees to give something back 
As human beings, we valu e the collaboration and support of others – no 
person is an island. Similarly, we also like to give something back. A lot of 
people who have shown single -mindedness in getting to the top of their 
career, vocation or sport, try to put something back in their own professional 
area. 
For instance, we have seen entrepreneurs such as Bill Gates establish a 
global aid foundation, while the likes of Alan Sugar helps young 
entrepreneurs to take their first step. 
It’s important to help staff realise that, not only ca n they turn to others for 
support, but they can also help them too. Even new starters can bring fresh 
ideas to the team and, if employees see that they can give something back, 
it boosts their own self-esteem. 
 
 
3. Mitigation And Adaptation Procedures 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  6 
Drpd/ of :  8 
3.1 Every company has to undergo constant changes in procedures and basic 
structural set -ups in order to thrive and cope with the changing conditions. 
Sometimes, employees may be resistant to this change because it might affect their 
routine or make them feel threatened. Simple changes like changing office premises 
or serious ones like changing the organisational structure may affect anyone’s 
mindset. 
3.2 However, the key to coping lies in the managers’ behaviour and ability to 
handle the staff. It is most impo rtant for the managers to handle the entire change, 
whatever it may be with a positive attitude. Here’s how. 
i) To act as a support to the staff 
Any subordinate staff will look to their manager as a lead and guide 
in time of crisis or change. It is importa nt to know how to handle the 
change positively so that the staff can tide over it without any 
inhibitions. If the manager himself starts acting uncertainly and 
behaving irrationally it might affect the entire workflow and even the 
mindset of the staff.  Change training is an important element in the 
larger scheme of things. 
 
iii) To help make employees understand 
When you start making changes within any corporate structure, 
employees need time to adjust too. Initially, when you start 
introducing change, employees may fear it, they may not welcome 
it. As a manager, it is your positive outlook that will help make the m 
understand how the change is important and how it will benefit the 
organisation as a whole. 
A positive talk will additionally help them put the company goals 
above their own, thereby helping to adjust to the new points or 
changes. 
 
iv) To make them comfortable 
If you go about leading the way to a new set -up or structure with no 
proper counselling or positivity, employees may get uncomfortable; 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  7 
Drpd/ of :  8 
rumours may start spreading about the instability within the 
organisation, even if there isn’t any. 
It is your respon sibility to make the staff comfortable during the 
transition and to help them cope. It is normal for employees to get 
used to a certain structure and new employees, a new work set -up 
or even changes in the work flow may severely affect them. 
 
v) To make the transition smooth 
Transition takes time and if it is not handled properly, it might lead to 
trouble. The staff at any organisation might not be able to learn the 
new changes adapt to it or work properly and effectively. While 
change may be relevant and eve n necessary in some cases, it is 
the smooth transitioning that will help the employees move forward. 
This is where your counselling and positive attitude will help most. 
 
vi) To save time in adapting 
Without the right attitude and level of positivity or counselling, 
employees will take more time adapting to the change. It might 
affect their ability to adapt and take longer for the organisation to 
start working as per the new structure. It is the respon sibility of the 
managers to ensure this doesn’t happen with the right attitude and 
lots of positivity. 
 
4. Identification Of Instruction Problems Concerning Work Completion 
 
4.1 Upon completing all the steps above, a good manager will have a bigger 
picture of how  the staff are coping, the potential problems, possible 
potential candidate for upgrading, potential areas to improve, create a 
better relationship within the organization, possible solutions to 
problems and other views that was not apparent before 
4.2 After gathering the information, the manager could assess the impact of 
the change management as to the work output and how it could affect 
the work completion. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(3/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  8 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
4.3 This leads to a fairer, easier assessments of potential problems that 
could result in low work completion thus giving management the chance 
to plan ahead to overcome the problems 
 
 
 
 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
 
1. What is the Postive Mental Attitude (PMA)? 
 
2. What are the 5 initiatives the management can offer  softening the impact of change 
management? 
 
3. What are the mitigation and adaptation procedures the management can offer? 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. http://www.managerwise.com/article.phtml?id=37 (19 August 2015, 15.11pm) 
2. http://www.hrzone.com/talent/development/in-a-nutshell-five-ways-to-encourage-
a-positive-attitude (19 August 2015, 15.31pm) 
3. https://www.illumine.co.uk/2014/01/reasons-why-managers-need-to-address-
changes-within-the-organisation-with-a-positive-attitude/ (19 August 2015, 
17.00pm) 
4. http://www.managerwise.com/articlecat.phtml?c=Change%20Management ( 19 
August 2015, 18.23pm)  