1 
 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE 
AND NAME 
 Z-009-4:2015  CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO AND 
TITLE 
 
CA05  STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
 
05.01. ADVOCATE EFFECTIVE THINKING 
05.02. COMPLY WITH EFFECTIVE ANALYSIS 
05.03. APPLY STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
05.04. APPLY BUDGETARY CONTROL PROCEDURES 
05.05. APPLY PROBLEM SOLVING TECHNIQUES 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) Mukasurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE : BUDGETARY ALLOCATION PROCEDURES  
 
TUJUAN / PURPOSE : 
 
        This information sheet is intended to describe about budgetary allocation procedures  
         in the organization. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to ensure  
         budgetary control procedures within the organization with appropriate solutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
 KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
 ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
 PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
 62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION :  
 
1  Introduction To Budgetary Allocation Procedures 
    1.1: A budget is a financial plan used to estimate revenues and expenditures for carrying  
     out specific activities in a given period of time. It is a management and planning tool,  
     not just an accounting document. A budget is used for planning and performance  
     measurement purposes, which can involve spending for fixed assets, rolling out new  
     products, training employees, setting up bonus plans, controlling operations, and so  
     forth. Typically, budgets are divided into allocation components. These are often  
     based on the organization’s core priorities. For example, in a university setting, typical  
     components are student enrollment and research.   
 
  1.2: Budgetary control is a control technique whereby actual results are compared with  
  budget. Any differences (variances) are made the responsibility of key individuals who 
  can either exercise control action or revise the original budgets. So these enable  
  managers to monitor organizational functions. 
  Budgetary control can be defined as a system of management control in which actual  
  income and spending are compared with planned income and spending, so that you can  
  see if plans are being followed and if those plans need to be changed in order to make a  
  profit. 
       
 1.3: The process flow for budget are shown at figure 1. 
 
               
Figure 1 – Process flow for budget 
 
          i. Budget Creation 
             A budget is a pool of funds that you can use to execute organization activities.   
 
         ii. Budget Approval 
             After creating a budget, it must submit it for approval. Budget approval is the 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of         :  8 
             process by which the designated approvers approve the budget. During the 
             budget approval process, the approvers may approve, reject, or put the request  
 
             on hold.  
 
        iii. Budget Allocation 
            Budget allocation involves distributing funds from the budget.  
 
       iv. Budget Utilization 
            A budget gets utilized through budget requests and budget transfers. A  
            budget transfer involves transferring funds from one budget to another. 
        v. Budget Reconciliation 
            The budget can be reconcile after all the offers that are associated with a budget 
             are closed, and a budget is no longer required. If there are any active offers that  
             are associated, the offers must be closed before reconciling the budget. 
                
2. Budget Objectives 
  2.1: Provide structure.  
  A budget is useful for giving a company guidance regarding the direction in which it is  
  supposed to be going. Thus, it forms the basis for planning what to do and what to  
  impose a budget on a company that does not have a good sense of direction.  
 
  2.2: Predict cash flows.  
   A budget is useful for predicting cash flows in the future.  
 
 2.3: Allocate resources.  
  Some organizations use the budgeting process as a tool for deciding where to allocate  
  funds to various activities, such as fixed asset purchases.  
 
2.4: Measure employee performance.  
A budget can be used as the basis for judging employee performance. 
 
2.5: Provide a forecast of revenues and expenditures. 
 Its construct a model of how a business might perform financially if certain strategies,  
 events and plans are carried out. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of         :  8 
  
2.6: Establish the cost constraint for a project, program, or operation. 
 
2.7: Helps co-ordinate the activities of the organization by compelling managers to  
 examine relationships between their own operation and those of other departments. 
 
3. Budget Strategies 
    There are four different budgeting styles to consider: 
3.1: Classic categories 
            The classic budgeting style is to sit down, figure out your income, and then  
            assign spending limits to your most common expense categories. The idea is to  
            try to limit the spending in each category.  
 
     3.2: Zero-based 
            With this budgeting style, you give every dollar a job. It’s very regimented, and            
            works best for those who know exactly how much money is coming in each  
            month, and when it comes in. You account for all of your spending ahead of time,  
            in an effort to come to zero each month.  
  
    3.3: Envelopes 
           One of the best ways to keep track of your spending is to use the envelope  
           system, and pay for everything in cash. The idea is to set up envelopes, labeled  
           with categories, for variable spending. Once the cash is gone from the appropriate  
           envelope, you are done. You can move cash from envelope to another, but you  
           don’t get more cash from your account. This forces you to spend conscientiously,  
           carefully thinking through your purchases. 
 
   3.4: Priority-based 
          All of important priorities are covered first, and then just spend until the rest is gone  
          for the month. This requires that to track a spending so that it don’t overdraw the 
          account, but it doesn’t require to set up limiting categories. 
 
4. Budget Allocation 
    4.1: A budget allocation is the amount of funding designated to each expenditure line.      
           It designates the maximum amount of funding an organization is willing to spend  
           on a given item or program, and it is a limit that is not to be exceeded by the  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of         :  8 
           employee authorized to charge expenses to a particular budget line. Budgetary  
           allocations are integral components to an annual financial plan, or budget, of all  
 
 
           organizations. They indicate the level of resources an organization is committing  
           to a department or program. Without allocation limits, expenditures can exceed  
           revenues and result in financial shortfalls. Anyone working with budgets should  
           understand how they are used and the limitations they provide. 
                               
Figure 4.1a – Total Budget Allocation 
 
                                        
Figure 4.1b – Budget Allocation Of Income 
 
    4.2: Budget Category Allocations 
           Budgets are usually divided into departments and program units. This allows for  
           easier identification of the resources allocated to specific programs and functions.  
           Each category can be made of several budget allocations, referred to as line items, 
           for the specific needs necessary to support the program or overall department  
           operation. 
 
   4.3: Adjusting Budgetary Allocations 
          Budgetary allocations might not always be sufficiently estimated. This can happen  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of         :  8 
          when adequate funding for predictable or reoccurring expenses are not included in  
          the budget. This might require the budget to be modified after adoption to account  
          for the shortfall. Typical corrections will include transferring funds from other  
          allocation categories or from the organization's surplus, sometimes referred to as  
 
          savings. Just as budgetary allocation estimates can be insufficient, revenues can be  
          underestimated. Insufficient revenues might require the need to reduce budgetary  
          allocations in order for expenditures not to exceed revenues at the end of the  
          budget year. 
 
  4.4: Monitoring Budgetary Allocations 
         Budgetary allocations should be routinely monitored to ensure the amounts  
         budgeted are sufficient to meet expenditures. It is important to have a tracking  
         system in place for all purchase orders and bills. The purchase orders and bills  
         should be matched regularly against the budgetary allocation to ensure sufficient  
         funds exist for the remainder of the budget year. 
 
5. Budget Allocation Process 
    After a budget is approved and active, it can distribute funds down to the unit. This  
    process of allocating funds down to the unit is called budget allocation. Each of the  
    unit can use their funds to execute activities. 
    For example, an active budget has $75,000. You can allocate funds among these  
    territories based on the demand in each of these territories as shown in Figure 4. 
       
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of         :  8 
                              
Figure 5 – Budget allocation 
 
 
 
      Territories can be arranged in a hierarchy. It can allocate a fixed budget down a  
      particular territory hierarchy. Budget allocation enables to establish a top-level value  
      for allocation funds and distribute the roll-down values to the lowest hierarchy levels. 
      When the allocation is complete, a budget hierarchy, which is similar to the territory  
      hierarchy is created. The primary person in each territory becomes the budget owner.  
      The other team members in the territory become team members of the budget. 
      During budget allocation, it can perform the following actions: 
      i) Specify holdback amounts or holdback percentage at each level of the hierarchy 
     ii) Edit allocations 
    iii) Transfer funds 
    iv) Release holdback funds 
 
           
  


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(4/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of         :  8 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What is a budgetary control? 
2. How budgetary process occur? 
3. Explain briefly the process of budget allocation? 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://lexicon.ft.com/Term?term=budgetary-control 
2. en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budget 
3. http://smallbusiness.chron.com/budgetary-allocation-31340.html 
 