 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA PUSAT 
BERTAULIAH 
 
SOALAN PENILAIAN PENGETAHUAN (SUBJEKTIF) 
KOD UNIT CORE ABILITY Z-009-4:2015 CA06 
NAMA UNIT  ABILITY 
EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 
COLLABORATION 
NAMA CALON  
NO.KAD PENGENALAN  
MASA  
TARIKH  
MARKAH  
 
Arahan kepada calon: 
1.  Tulis nama dan nombor kad pengenalan calon pada ruangan yang disediakan; 
2. Calon tidak dibenarkan membuka kertas soalan sehingga dibenarkan; 
3. Calon hendaklah menjawab semua soalan; 
4. Calon dilarang membawa nota atau sebarang bahan rujukan kecuali yang 
dibenarkan. 
5. Dilarang meniru semasa penilian; dan 
6. Dilarang membawa keluar kertas soalan dari bilik peperiksaan 
 
KERTAS PENILAIAN INI MENGANDUNGI ...02…. MUKA SURAT BERCETAK 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
   
   


----PAGE BREAK----

 
2 
 
Soalan 1 (20 Marks) 
a. Specify four (4) benefits of effective communication in workplace:  
(5 Marks) 
 
b. State five (5) barriers that are seen as problem cause for ineffective communication.  
(5 Marks) 
 
c. Define the meaning and purpose of graphic information.  
(5 Marks) 
 
d. Distinguish between symbol and sign.  
(5 Marks) 
 
Soalan 2 
a. Elaborate the key aspects involved in delivering effective presentation or in 
decision making on presentation method.  
(10 arks)  
 
b. Discuss the main skills one should have to master to become an effective      
communicator  
(10 Marks). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
3 
 
ANSWER SCHEME 
 
Question 1 
a. Specify four (4) benefits of effective communication in workplace:  
  2.1  Reduces conflict. 
  The primary reason for the occurrence of conflict is misunderstood communication.  
  Learning effective communication skills helps a person to be an effective  
  communicator. The person is then able to resolve conflicts, build harmony and bridge   
  communication gaps, which created conflict. 
 
 2.2 : Helps in achieving goals. 
 Effective communication helps a person to get what they expect out of life. This makes 
them capable of communicating thoughts in such a way that people understand 
instantly. Thus, they offer you the resources, which are you require to achieve your 
dreams and goals. 
 
 2.3 : Strengthens relationships. 
 Effective communication helps people understand what they want and expect from  
 each other. This helps to build strong personal relationships between them. 
 
2.4 : Better acceptance of ideas. 
Effective communication is very broad concept and helps to discover the wants and 
needs  
of others. You can thus adjust your presentation in order to match their needs. 
Gradually people know that you try to understand them rather than making them 
understand your needs they will gladly adopt your ideas. 
 
2.5 : Improves job satisfaction 
Efficient communication among employees helps to improve job satisfaction. All  
employees feel that their presence makes difference to the organization. Bosses feel 
that their orders and requests are being cared for. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
4 
 
2.6 : Helps to save time. 
With an increase in competition in every field of life time has become a crucial factor. 
Thus a choice of communication channel such as phone, fax, email and face to face for 
transferring information can help in saving a lot of time and money. 
 
2.7 : Easy promotions. 
Effective communicators have greater chances of being promoted in their jobs. 
  
b. State five (5) barriers that are seen as problem cause for ineffective communication.  
    i) Physical distraction. 
    ii)  Attitude          
      iii) Channel barriers                
      iv) Stereotype 
      v)  Language barrier             
      vi) Time barrier              
     vii) Structural problems in the organization 
    viii) Lack of knowledge on the subjects 
     ix) Information overload 
       x.)  Assumptions 
 
      c.   Define the meaning and purpose of graphic information. (4 Marks) 
         Answer 
a. Information graphics or info graphics are graphic visual representations of  
             information, data or knowledge intended to present information quickly and  
             clearly. They can improve cognition by utilizing graphics to enhance the human  
             visual system’s ability to see patterns and trends. Similar pursuits are information  
             visualization, data visualization, statistical graphics, information design,  
             or information architecture.  
         b. Info graphics have evolved in recent years to be for mass communication, and  
             thus are designed with fewer assumptions about the reader’s knowledge base  
             than other types of visualizations. Isotopes’ are an early example of info graphics  
             conveying information quickly and easily to the masses. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
5 
 
e. Distinguish between symbol and sign. (3 Marks) 
           Symbols:  
                Something that represents or suggests something else. Symbols often take the  
                form of words, visual images, or gestures that are used to convey ideas and  
                beliefs. All human cultures use symbols to express the underlying structure of  
                their social systems, to represent ideal cultural characteristics, such as beauty,  
                and to ensure that the culture is passed on to new generations. Symbolic  
                relationships are learned rather than biologically or naturally determined, and  
                each culture has its own symbols. 
 
           Signs:  
                Something that indicates or acts as a token of a fact, condition or an action or 
                gesture intended to convey information or a command. 
 
 
Soalan 2 
 
Elaborate the key aspects involved in delivering effective presentation or in decision 
making on presentation method. (10 Marks)  
Answer 
          i) The facilities available to you by way of visual aids, sound systems, and lights.  
             Obviously you cannot use facilities that are not available. If you are told that you  
             will need to present without a projector, you’re going to need to decide on a  
             method that works without slides. 
 
         ii) The occasion.  
             A formal conference of 200 people will require a very different approach from a  
             presentation to your six-person team. And a speech at a personnel function is  
             totally different again. Consider the norms of the occasion. For example, at a  
             certain function, you are not expected to use slides or other visual aids. 
 
        iii) The audience and the topic.  
             If it’s a small, informal event, you will be able to use a less formal method. You  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
6 
 
             might, for example, choose to give your audience a one-page handout, perhaps  
             info graphic that summarizes your key points, and talk them through it. A more  
             formal event is likely to need slides. 
 
        iv) Your experience in giving presentations.  
             More experienced presenters will be more familiar with their own weak points, and  
             able to tailor their preparation and style to suit. However, few people are able to  
             give a presentation without notes. Even the most experienced speakers will  
            usually have at least some form of notes to jog their memory and aid their  
            presentation. 
 
         v) Your familiarity with the topic.  
             As a general rule, the more you know about it, the less you will need to prepare in  
             detail, and the more you can simply have an outline of what you want to say, with  
             some brief reminders. 
 
        vi) Your personal preferences.  
            Some people prefer to ‘bask it’ (or ‘wing it’) and make up their presentation on the  
            day, while others prefer detailed notes and outlines. You will need to know your  
            own abilities and decide how best to make the presentation.  When you first start  
            giving presentations you may feel more confident with more detailed notes. As you  
            become more experienced you may find that you can deliver effectively with less. 
 
 
b. Discuss the main skills one should have to master to become an effective      
communicator (10 Marks). 
Answer 
 i) Staying focused on topic               
When you deal with an argument, most of the times, the discussion goes out of  
topic and the situation can become quite complicated. Staying focused is one of  
 the best skills for communicating under pressure. If you go out of focus, there is  
 a high chance that the end result of the communication may not be effective. 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
7 
 
 
         ii) Listening Carefully 
             Listening well means understanding the information and the emotion being              
communicated. When you really listen, you’re engaged with what’s being said, you’ll 
hear the subtle intonations in someone’s voice that tell you how that person is feeling 
and the emotions they’re trying to communicate.    
 
        iii) Pay Attention to nonverbal signals (body language) 
            When we communicate, we mainly using nonverbal signals such facial   
            expressions, body movement and gestures, eye contact, posture, the tone of voice  
            and breathing. The way you look, listen, move, and react to another person tells  
            them more about how you’re feeling. Developing the ability to understand and use  
            nonverbal communication can help you connect with others, express what you  
            really mean, navigate challenging situations, and build better relationships at home  
           and work. 
        
      iv) Understanding Others' Point of Views 
          If you can really see through their point of view, you can actually explain yours in  
          a clear and applicable way. 
 
       v) Empathy When Criticizing 
          Sometimes, we become really defensive when someone criticizes us. In 
          communication, it is really important to listen to the other person's pain and  
          difficulties and respond with empathy. At the same time, try to extract the facts  
          and the truth in what they say. 
 
       vi) Assert yourself 
           Being assertive means expressing your thoughts, feelings, and needs in an open 
           and honest way, while standing up for yourself and respecting others. Assertive  
           expression makes for clear communication and can help boost self-esteem and  
           decision-making.  
.  
     vii) Compromise if Necessary 
          Communication is not about winning, it's about getting things done. So you may  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
8 
 
          have to compromise in the process.  
 
   viii) Take a Time-Out if Necessary 
         To communicate effectively, you need to learn how to manage stress. When  
          you’re stressed, you’re more likely to misread other people, send confusing or off-putting  
          nonverbal signals. If you can quickly relieve stress and return to a calm state, you’ll also  
          help to calm the other person. So take a break in the middle of the discussion if ineffective  
          communication pattern surfaced. After the break, all the parties involved in the discussion  
          will be able to constructively contribute for the  discussion. 
 
     ix) Compete for Your Objective 
         Although there can be a lot of obstacles, do not give up what you are fighting for. 
         Surely you may have to compromise, but clearly stand for what you believe in.             
               
 