25 
 
 
 
  
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE & NAME 
 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
C02:HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
MONITORING 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
2.1 ENSURE HEALTH AWARENESS PROGRAM 
2.2 ENSURE SAFETY AWARENESS PROGRAM 
2.3 ENSURE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 
PROGRAM 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         : 20 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  SAFETY AND HEALTH AWARENESS PROGRAMME 
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
 
This information sheet is intended to describe on condition and aspects to consider in the 
development of a safety and health programme and safety Awareness Programmeat  
Workplace.The person who is competent in this CA  shall be able to ensure safety and 
health  awareness programme at workplace. 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
While organisation strive towards worlplace safety and health, accidents continue to occur. 
Having a safety and health programme in place is not a gurantee that accidents will not 
happen. Safety and health is the responsibility of all, from the management level to the 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
26 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
supervisors and the employees. Everyone must play their role and contribute to the 
successful implementation of the programme. Other factor affecting the successful 
implementation of a safety and health programme are : 
- Management commitment on  the allocation of monetary budget and the 
demonstration of job safety and health; 
- Training of supervisor and new employees; 
- An established written safety and health programme; 
- Accountability for safety and health at all levels; 
- Response and compliance to accident investigation; and 
- Conduct safety and health inspection and audit 
 
2.0 DEVELOPING A SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAMME 
Safety and health programme, must be incorporated into business activities to ensure that 
all aspect of safety and health management are co vered. Three condition for a successful 
safety and health programme : 
i. Management leader ship 
Ii. Safe Working Condition 
Iii. Safe working habits by all employees 
The objectives of a safety and health programme are ensure ; 
- The company has a direction and c ommitment for safety and health that 
include policies and procedures for all emplloyees and other interested 
perties. 
- All misunderstanding and misconceptions are clarified for a specific safety 
and health activity or issue; 
- The practise of safety and health at the workplace is part of the objectives 
the performance measurement; 
- There is a written safety and health rules and procedure for every to follow; 
- That all activities have been integrated with safety and health requirement; 
- Proper communication t ools are established for safety and health 
communication 
With the effective implementation of a written safety and health programme, it is expected 
to reduce unwanted incident or accidents and also damage to property.  
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
27 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
3.0 FACTORS DETERMINING THE SUCCESS OF  A SAFETY AND HEALTH 
PROGRAMME 
Factors that determine the success of safety and health programme : 
- Management Commitment and Employee Involvement 
- Worksite Analysis 
- Hazard Prevention and Control 
- Safety and Health Training 
 
3.1 Management Commitment and Employee Involvement 
To ensure that safety and health programme can be continuously evaluated, the 
management must establish a clear goal and objective for the safety and health 
programme. M anagement have to provide visibility and involvement in implementing 
the safety and health programme through : 
- Commitment to safety and health policy 
- Establishment of safety and health consultative committee  
- Involvement in providing resources for safety and health programme. 
 
3.2 Worksite Analysis 
Worksite analysis is an activity that should be included in the safety and health 
programme which is to identify hazard and potential hazards that may  exist in work 
processes and in the working environment. The following are performed to identify 
workplace hazards or potential hazards : 
- Conduct comprehensive periodical surveys on hazards identification 
- Analyse new prosesses, methods, materials, equipment and installation 
- Conduct Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC ) or 
job hazards analysis   
- Conduct regular site safety and health inspection 
- Provide a system that is reprisal –free for employees that notify management of 
hazardous conditions 
 
3.3  Hazards Prevention and Control (Risk Management) 
Occupational  safety and health legislation requires anyone in control of the wokplace 
to identify the potential hazards of the proposed work, assess the risks involved and 
develop controls to eliminate or minimize the risk. Once hazards or potential hazar ds 
are identify, the management has to establish procedures to prevent exposure to 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
28 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
employees and to control the hazards. The Procedures shall include the hierarchy of 
control to ensure that the priority for hazards prevention is followed accordingly which  
include : 
- Elimination 
- Substitution 
- Isolation 
- Engineering Control 
- Administrative Control 
- Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
 
3.4  Safety and Health Training 
Training and education helps to ensure that empl oyees are adequately trained to 
perform their safety and to raise their awareness on workplace and health. 
An effective safety and health training addresses the following: 
- The responsibility of everyone in the organisation with regards to safety and 
health programmes . 
- Integrates safety and health training into other training 
- Defines the complexity of the safety and health training, depending on the size 
and complexity of the workplace and the natureof hazards that employees are 
exposed to. 
 
4.0 SAFETY  AWARENESS PROGRAM IN THE WORK PLACE 
 
4.1 Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS)  In The 
Organisation 
The system shall contain the main elements  categories are: 
- Policy 
- Organising 
- Planning & Implementing 
- Evaluation 
- Action for Improvement 
 
4.2 Safety and Health Audit 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
29 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
The safety and health audit is important in ensuring the safety of a plant environment, 
workplace or equipment and that the people are working safely. Audits are normally 
performed for the follwing reasons ; 
- To identify hazards 
- To ensure compliance with company rules and regulation 
- To ensure compliance with the relevant authority`s requirements  
- To determine the safety and health condition of a workplace. 
- To determine the safety and health condition of equipment and machineries. 
- To determine the safety and health condition of operation processes 
- To evaluate the performance of safety and heath management. 
- To evaluate supervisor awareness towards safety and health. 
- To evaluate employees performance in regards to safety and health. 
- To evaluate the progress and effectiveness of safety and health issues and 
problem. 
- To determine the effectiveness of hazards control at a new workplace, new 
equipment or new processes. 
 
4.3 Emergency Prevention,Preparedness and Response 
Emergency prevention, preparedness and response is important to ensure that 
company is ready to face any unexpected emergency situation. Important aspects to 
consider in your emergency prevention, preparedness and response is summarised 
in table below. 
Aspect Description 
Emergency 
planning and 
preparation 
Includes employee preparation, response and evacuation during 
an emergency – train employees to take the appropriate actions 
during an emergency, such as organising evacuation drills to 
familiarise them with the emergency evacuation routes. The 
management must also establish an emergenc y response team 
to ensure there are specially trained personnel in the company 
to handle emergency situations. 
Emergency 
Equipment 
Ensure that the organisation has all the necessary equipment 
and tool to handle potential emergencies appropriately, the 
equipment and tools must be tested, serviced, calibrated and 
maintained periodically to ensure their functionality. 
Medical The medical team also has to be always prepared to go on site 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
30 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
Programme to attend to employees for emergency care, the medic personnel 
must be available on site with appropriate medication and 
equipment. 
 
 
4.4  Promotions 
The promotion of occupational safety and health, as part of an overall improvement of 
working conditions, represent  an important strateg. Promotions program could be in 
the form of safety week, poster & slogan Competiitions, safety award schemes, 
photographic displays, regular site safety tours, exhibitions of safety equipment and 
short safety talks, film shows etc.  
 
4.5  Tool Box Talk 
A tool box talk is a hands on way to remind workers that safety and health are 
important on the job which deal with specific problems on site. Through tool box talks 
we can tell workers about safety and health requirements for the tool, equipment, 
material and procedures they use every day or for particular jobs.The objective of tool 
box is to help workers recognize and control hazards on the project which 
demonstrate the commitment of employers and workers to safety and health on the 
job. 
 
4.6   Permit To Work System 
An area where work has to be undertaken in a partcularly hazardous situation or 
environment, such as working on or ne ar existing line and in confined spaces e.g. 
tunnel and  high voltage room, or where workers can be jeopardized by unwitting 
action of other, or by their own failure to realize an actual or potential danger etc. 
i) Types Of Permit Used in Work Activities 
a. Welding / burning (naked flame) work permit 
b. Hot work (no naked flame) work permit. 
c. Flammable release work permit. 
d. Vessel entry work permit (confined spaces) 
e. Cold work permit. 
f. Electrical work permit. 
g. Safe excavation work permit 
h. Working at heigh work permit 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
31 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
 
4.7 Lock-Out Tag-Out System  
A Lock -out tag -out  system is a written practice which when followed, will allow 
workers to carry out their job function without undue risks.  The system`s procedure 
can be quite simple, yet precise, such as locking out and taggin g out simple piece of 
machinery or complex, such as the locking out of entire process. A lock -out tag out 
may applied to electrical and machanical equipment in nature, 
 
4.8 Workplace Inspection. 
Safety& health inspection and audits often have negative implicat ion, associated with 
faultfinding. A positive approach based on fact finding will produce better results, and 
cooperation from all those taking part in the process is  workplace Inspection. The 
objectives workplace inspections are: 
- To identify hazardous conditions and start the corrective process. 
- To improve operation and condition. 
i) There are a number of types of Inspection : 
a. Statutory - Compliance with relevant legislative requirements 
b. External - By enforcement Officials, insurers, consultants 
c. Executive - Senior management tour 
d. Scheduled - Planned at appropriate intervals by supervisor. 
e. Introductory - Check on new or reconditioned 
f. Continuous - By employee, supervisor, which can be formal and pre -
planned, or informal 
 
4.9 Preventitive Maintenance Programme (PMP) 
The preventitive maintenance programme (PMP) is normally scheduled to take place 
on a daily, weekly, montly or yearly basis and use inspection checklists preventitive 
maintenance programme (PMP) can be considered as an accident prevention tool, as 
equipment failures are minimised, therefore reducing the potentially unsafe 
conditions.Good preventitive maintenance programme lead to ; 
- Improved equipment efficiency 
- Improved attitudes toward safety 
- Higher degree of safety ownership ; and 
- Lower Chances of incidents from happening. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
32 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
4.10 Accident Investigation and Reporting Technique 
An accident is an unexpected or unplanned event in a sequence of events that can 
occur through a combination of causes, resulting due to; 
- Physical injury, illness or disease to an individual; 
- Damage to property; or  
- A combinaton of the above. 
An accident investigation is important as it helps organisations to continually improve 
workplace safety. The purpose of an accident investigation are; 
- Prevent the reocurrence of a same or smilar accident; 
- Continuous monitoring and measuring of the organisation’s safety and health 
performance; 
- Find ways or measure to prevent recurrences 
- Find methods to determine the root cause of the accident and; 
- Provide a structured method of investigating accident. 
Accident prevention programme indirectly contributes to higher productivity and quality, as 
work processes are better organised and subsequently free from unnecessary 
interruptions. Accident prevention measures indirectly results in costly correc tive 
measures when accident occur. There are four(4) techniques or tools for preventing 
accidents at the workplace; 
i) Job Hazard Analysis(JSA) 
ii) Job Safety Analysis(JSO) 
iii) Prevention Maintenance Programme(PMP) 
iv) Special Emphasis Programme 
 
5.0    HEALTH  AWARENESS PROGRAM IN THE WORK PLACE 
Workplace health and wellness programs should be a part of the overall strategy for a 
healthy workplace. The purpose of a workplace health and wellness program is to offer a 
comprehensive health service for all employees.  Health haz ards to be included in the 
Health Awareness programme are; 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
33 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
12
Health Hazards at workplace
Ergonomic
•Repetitive work
•Lifting/handling
•Etc. 
PHYSICAL
•Noise
•Radiation
•Temperature
•Lighting
CHEMICAL
•Dust
•Vapor
•Gas
BIOLOGICAL
•Bacteria
•Fungus
•Mould
PSYCHOSOCIAL
•Work demand
•Shift work
•Stress 
 
5.1 Chemical Control Programme 
Working with chemicals can involve the risk of exposure, becoming hazardous to a 
person’s health. Those health risks are dependent upon the toxicity of the chemical, 
the types of effects, and how the chemicals enter the body.There are four major 
routes of entry chemical into the body: 
- Inhalation (breathing) 
- Absorption (skin contact) 
- Ingestion (eating) 
- Injection 
 
The most common way workplace chemicals enter the body is by breathing. Other 
chemicals can be absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream. They  can also be 
accidentally swallowed if hands or cigarettes are contaminated. Injection is another 
way that chemicals enter the body. Though less common in most workplaces, it can 
occur when a sharp object (e.g., a needle) punctures the skin and injects a c hemical 
(or virus) into the bloodstream. This can also occur when a chemical is sprayed at the 
body at high pressure. Eyes are also another route of entry, although usually only very 
small amounts of chemicals in the workplace enter through the eyes or mouth. 
However the chemical enters the body, it is distributed throughout the body via the 
bloodstream, where they can attack and harm organs which are far away from the 
original point of entry as well as where they entered the body. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
34 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
Employer has  to develop an d carry out programmes spelling out methods and 
procedures on safety and health in the use of chemicals at workplace. A programme 
for the safe management of chemical should consist three(3) ideas; 
(i) Management should know all the chemicals being used in the enterprise, 
including their quantities and their associated hazards 
(ii) Workers should know the hazards associated with the chemicals they work 
with and should be trained in the necessary precautions. 
(iii) Workplaces should be designed or adapted to the needs of th e worker 
instead of attempting to adapt the worker to the workplace. 
 
Chemical control programme should include; 
a) Cooperation at the workplace 
To ensure the role of e mployers  and employees in handling chemicals at 
the workplace. 
 
b) Inventory of chemicals - Chemical Register 
Employers has to identify and record all chemical hazardous to health 
processed, produced or stored in the place of work and maintained in good 
order and condition and be updated from time to time. The register shall be 
accessible to all employees at the place of work who may be exposed or are 
likely to be exposed to chemicals hazardous to health.  
c) Chemical Health Risk Asessment(CHRA) 
Employers has to make sure that chemical health risk assessment is 
conducted in a workplace in order to identify, evaluate and control any health 
risk associated with work activities involving the use of chemicals. The 
purpose of conducting CHRA is to enabling decisions to be made on 
appropriate control measures, induction and training of emplo yees, 
monitoring and health surveillance activities as may be required to protect 
the health of employees who may be exposed to chemicals hazardous to 
health at work.  
d) Purchasing procedure, Classification and Labelling  
Each chemical entering the workplace must correctly identified, classified 
and labelled, complete with an up -to-date safety data sheet. Drums, bags 
and any other containers holding chemicals should be frequently checked for 
proper labels. The purpose of la belling is to warn workers of the potential 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
35 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
hazards of the chemicals, and necessary precautionary measures and what 
to do in case of an emergency. Label of chemical should consist of p roduct 
Identifier, hazard s tatement, precautionary Statement, supplier 
identifications, hazard pictogram and signal word. 
e) Safety Data Sheet (SDS) 
Safety data sheet (SDS), intended to provide workers and emergency 
personnel with procedures for handling or working with a hazardous 
substance in a safe manner, and includes information such as physical data 
(melting point, boiling point, flash point, etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid, 
reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment, and spill -handling 
proceduresIts indicate appropriate precautions, including pers onal protective 
equipment as well as emergency procedures.. 
 
 
 
 
f) Ensure the adequacy of control measures  
27
CHEMICAL EXPOSURE  CONTROL
RECEIVER
Control by Law,
Regulations & 
Administration
PPE
SOURCE
Substitution
Modify process
Enclosure
Local exhaust 
Fugitive 
emission 
control
Isolation
PATH
•Guards
•Isolation,
•Enclosure &
•Engineering  
Control
•Housekeeping
•Continuous area 
monitoring
• Automation or  
remote control
 
 Administrative Practices includes; 
- Time work so fewer workers are exposed, 
- Work upwind of mixing operations, 
- Shower after shift 
- Change clothes 
- No food or smoking in work areas 
 Personal Protective Equipment(PPE) includes 
- Skin Protectionsuch as gloves, aprons, full body suits, and boots.  
- Respiratory Protection ; respirators are effective against some 
chemicals but may provide little or no protection against others.  
 Safe storage-elements includes 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
36 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
- Separated from process areas 
- Prevent mixing of incompatiblese.g segregation, bunding  
- Reduce risk of physical damage 
- Prevent rapid spread of smoke/fire 
- Minimise amount involved in incident -e.g necessary quantity,  
 ventilation   
g) Training and Education 
People who work with the chemicals should be instructed  and trained in the 
possible hazards caused by the chemicals, safe working procedures, the 
care and use of protective equipment, and emergency and first -aids 
measures.  
h) Health Survellance and Medical Removal Protection 
Health surveillance to be conducte d when CHRA  indicates that h ealth 
surveillance is necessary. Medical Removal Protection should be apply to  an 
employee by remove him/her from any work that exposed or likely to expose 
him/her to chemicals hazardous to health. 
 
i)  Record keeping 
Maintenance of record keeping by the employer on  records related to 
chemical hazardous to health used at workplace should be in place. 
j) Warning Sign 
Employer to ensure  on warning sign of chemical hazardous to health is 
posted to give warning to any person who may be in that are a or who may 
be or likely to be risk of being affected by the chemicals hazardous to health. 
k) Disposal 
- Labelling of Wastes -Scheduled Waste Reg. 
- Temporary Disposal Storage Area 
- -weather protection & spill control 
- Waste handlers 
- -safe work procedure, use of PPE  
- Safe disposal-DOE guidelines 
 
5.2 Noise Control Management Programme 
Employees should not be exposed to continuous noise levels exceeding 90dB(A) 
averaged over 8 working hours, or an 8 -hour time -weighted average (TWA). The 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
37 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
other two conditions are that no employee should exceed the 115 dB(A) at any time 
and no employees should exceed 140dB level at any time.  
 
(i) Hearing Conservation Programme(HCP) 
HCP is a set of carefully planned activities carried of with the aim of 
protecting and maintaining the hearing of employees Aspect of HCP is based 
on requirements under the Noise Exposure Regulations 1989 
a) Conduct noise monitoring to monitor noise exposure levels in a 
way that accurately identifies employees exposed  
b) Control of noise or ppe  - the recommended method of 
approach goes according to the order outlined below. 
 Plant planning (design and layout ) 
 Substitution (equipment, process , material ) 
 Engineering control 
 Hearing Protective Devices - Hearing protectors m ust 
adequately reduce the noise level for each employee's work 
environment.  
c) Established an audiometry test -  monitors an employee's 
hearing over time. The important elements of the program 
include baseline audiograms, annual audiograms, training, and 
followup procedures.  
d) Training and education program  - Employers must train 
employees in the effects of noise; the purpose , advantages, 
and disadvantages of various types of hearing protectors; the 
selection, fit, and care of protectors; and the purpose and 
procedures of audiometric testing 
e) Record keeping  - Keeping the audiometric test records is 
important as the information is needed for medical surveillance. 
These records are needed to ensure employees are not 
overexposed and their hearing is not adversely affected during, 
before and after working hours.  
 
5.3 Ergonomic Programme at the workplace 
Ergonomics is the science of fitting machines, tools, and work processes to match 
human characteristics and capabilities. Potential Ergonomic Risk Factors - 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
38 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
Excessive force, awkward or non -neutral postures, stati c postures, repetitive 
motion, mechanical stress, prolonged sitting/standing, vibration, contact stress, cold 
temperatures, and poor lighting. Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) one of the 
disease related to ergonomics problem, affect the muscles, nerves and tendons. 
Work related MSDs (including those of the neck, upper extremities and low back). 
Workers in many different industries and occupations can be exposed to risk 
factors at work, such as lifting heavy items, bending, reaching overhead, pushing 
and pull ing heavy loads, working in awkward body postures and performing the 
same or similar tasks repetitively. Exposure to these known risk factors for MSDs 
increases a worker's risk of injury  
 
i) Ergonomics Programme 
The purpose of the Ergonomics Program is to es tablish a system for the 
identification, evaluation, and control of ergonomic risk factors in the workplace. 
The goal of the ergonomics program is to maximize employee health, safety, 
efficiency, and productivity by matching the requirements of the job wit h the 
abilities of the worker. Measurable outcomes are: 
i. increased productivity 
ii. reduced worker compensation/medical costs 
iii. reduced absenteeism and job turnover 
iv. improved employee morale 
 
Components of Ergonomic Programme include; 
 
(a) Responsibilities  
 
Management/Employer  
 
Define clear goals and object ives for the 
ergonomic process, development, 
implementation, and management of t he 
Ergonomics Program as needed and provide 
financial. 
 
Employees - Workers  
 
Identify and provide important information about 
hazards in their workplaces, assist in the 
ergonomic by reducing exposure to risk factors 
and evaluating the changes made as a result of 
an ergonomic assessment.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
39 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
 
Supervisors 
 
Participate in worksite analysis and ergonomic 
hazard analysis, refer employees complaints, train 
employees and utilize ergonomic principles when 
designing work practices and procedures. 
Occupational Health 
Services 
Provides prompt assessment, treatment, and 
follow up to employe es reporting work -related 
musculoskeletal disorders. 
Environment,Health, 
and Safety Committee  
(EHS) 
Identifies potential ergonomic problems and 
contributing  
 
(b) Program Elements 
 
 
 
Worksite 
Analysis 
 
Identifies and documents ergonomic risk factors 
which include  
a. Walkthroughs of work areas; 
b. Analysis of tool design, equipment, furniture, and 
workprocesses; 
c. Measurement for proper adjustments; 
d. Employee interview and surveys; 
e. Injury and illness reports and trend analysis; 
f. Documentation of existing or potential ergonomic 
hazards bymembers of EHS. 
 
Prevention and 
Intervention 
Strategies 
 
Depend on such factors as risks, costs of interventions, 
and presence ofsymptomatic individuals. The most 
effective intervention is the  eliminationof the risk.Control 
strategies, in order of preference include engineering 
control, administrative control, health management and 
training and education. 
 
(c) Record keeping 
- Existing OHS, safety, worker compensation insurance records, all 
documents related are analyzed for evidence of injuries or disorders 
associated with cumulative trauma disorders. 
- Ergonomic analyses of work areas identified by employees or 
management will be documented by employer. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
40 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
 
5.4 Confined Space Programme 
Working in a confined space can expose a person to a very risky situation that can 
cause diseases and injury which leads to an accident and death. Statistics have 
shown many fatalities involving workers working in a confined space such as 
working in a silo, storage tan k, pressure vessel or tank, sewer system or 
communication system, trenches and others. In most cases the cause of death is 
due to inhaling of toxic gases or oxygen deficiency. 
i)  Confined space entry programme  
The confined space entry programme  shall include at  least the following 
elements  
a) Hazard identification - Identify all hazards associated with working in 
the confined space. 
b) Risk assessment  - Carry out the risk assessment before carrying out 
work involving entry into a confined space 
c) Risk control - Based on the risk assessment, establish and implement 
the procedures and practices of hazard control that provide safe entry 
into the confined space. 
d) Stand-by person  - At least one stand -by person outside the confined 
space into which entry is authorised for the duration of entry operations.  
e) Monitoring of multiple confined spaces  - For monitoring of multiple 
confined spaces by a single stand -by person, the programme  shall 
include the means and procedures to enable the stand -by person to 
respond to an emergency affecting one or more of the confined spaces 
being monitored without distraction from the stand -by person’s 
responsibilities 
f) Permit system - Develop a written system for preparation, issuance, 
implementation, and cancellation of permit to work.  
g) Sign-posting - Confined space warning signages to be posted at 
conspicuous places when work is being carried out after the issuance of 
the permit to work.  
h) Employee trai ning - Ensure that employees who are involved in 
confined space operation have undergone training on confined space 
safety course approved by the Director General of DOSH and passed 
the examination. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
41 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
i) Equipment -Provide appropriate equipment use for testing and 
monitoring; personal protective emergency and rescue equipment; and 
any other equipment necessary for safe entry into and rescue from 
confined spaces 
j) Means of Communication–such as telephone or walkie talkie 
k) External hazard protection- Protection such as physical barriers to be 
provided to control potential hazards posed by pedestrians and 
vehicles. 
l) Identification of the duties  - identify the duties of employees to be an 
authorised entrant, stand -by person, entry supervisor, authorised gas 
tester, permit issuer or other related personnel in entry operation. 
m) Information to the contractor  - brief contractors with information 
about the confined space hazards, safety rules and emergency 
procedures 
n) Coordination of entry operations involving employees of more than one 
contractorworking simultaneously 
o) Conclusion of entry 
 
 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What are  five  factor affecting the successful implementation of a safety and 
health programme ? 
2. Name three condition that must exist for the successful of a safety and health 
programme ? 
3. What are the objectives safety and health programme ? 
4. List  five  benefits of implementation of  safety and health programme ? 
5. What is the purpose of worksite analysis ? 
6. What is tool box talk ? 
7. What is lock-out and tag-out system  ? 
8. What types of work permit used in work activities ? 
9. List the three ideasthat safe chemical management programme should consist. 
10. State three conditions of noise exposure levels that no empl oyee should exceed 
and the legislation related 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
42 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
SKEMA 
 
1. Factor affecting the successful implementation of a safety and health programme   
are : 
 Management commitment on the allocation of monetary budget and the 
demonstration of job safety and health; 
 Training of supervisor and new employees; 
 An established written safety and health programme; 
 Accountability for safety and health at all levels; 
 Response and compliance to accident investigation; and 
 Conduct safety and health inspection and audit 
 
 
2. There are three condition which must exist for a successful safety and health 
programme : 
 Management leader ship 
 Safe Working Condition 
 Safe working habits by all employees 
 
4. The objectives of a safety and health programme are to ensure ; 
 The company has a direction and commitment for safety and health that include 
policies and procedures for all emplloyees and other interested perties. 
 All misunderstanding and misconceptions are clarified for a specific safety and 
health activity or issue; 
 The practise of s afety and health at the workplace is part of the objectives the 
performance measurement; 
 There is a written safety and health rules and procedure for every to follow; 
 That all activities have been integrated with safety and health requirement; 
 Proper communication tools are established for safety and health communication 
 
5. To reduce unwanted incident or accidents and also damage to property. Other benefit 
include : 
 Reduces company`s insurance premium 
 Reduces indirect cost of accidents 
 Prevent potential negative impact on company image or repotation 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
43 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
 Reduces physiological effects on employeess due to accident 
 Reduces long term or permanent disability cases 
 Improves employee morale and loyalty 
 Increases productivity 
 Makes employees pround to be part of the company. 
 
6. Worksite analysis is an activity that should be included in the safety and health 
programme. The purpose of this activity is to identify hazard and potential hazards that 
may  exist in work processes and in the working environment. This activity is conducted 
through observation and by specially – trained personnel. 
The following are performed to identify workplace hazards or potential hazards : 
- Conduct comprehensive periodical surveys on hazards identification 
- Analyse new prosesses, methods, materials, equipment and installation 
- Conduct Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC ) or job 
hazards analysis   
- Conduct regular site safety and health inspection 
- Provide a system that is reprisal –free for employees that notify man agement of 
hazardous conditions 
 
7. A tool box talk is a hands on way to remind workers that safety and health are 
important on the job. It deal with specific problems on site. They do not replace formal 
training. Through tool box talks  can tell workers abou t safety and health requirements for 
the tool, equipment, material and procedures they use every day or for particular 
jobs.Each talk will take about five minutes to present.  In delivering tool box talks, the 
objective is to help workers recognize and con trol hazards on the project. Tool box 
demonstrate the commitment of employers and workers to safety and health on the job. 
 
8. A Lock -out tag -out  system is a written practice which when followed, will allow 
workers to carry out their job function without und ue risks.  The system`s procedure can 
be quite simple, yet precise, such as locking out and tagging out simple piece of 
machinery or complex, such as the locking out of entire process. A lock -out tag out may 
applied to electrical and machanical equipment in nature, 
 
9. Types Of Permit Used in Work Activities 
- Welding / burning (naked flame) work permit 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
44 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(2/3) Muka surat / Page :   
Drpd / of:  20 
- Hot work (no naked flame) work permit. 
- Flammable release work permit. 
- Vessel entry work permit (confined spaces) 
- Cold work permit. 
- Electrical work permit. 
- Safe excavation work permit 
- Working at heigh work permit 
 
10. A programme for the safe management of chemical should consist three(3) ideas,  
I. Management should know all the chemicals being used in the enterprise, 
including their quantities and their associated hazards 
II. Workers should know the hazards associated with the chemicals they work 
with and should be trained in the necessary precautions. 
III. Workplaces should be designed or adapted to the needs of the worker 
instead of attempting to adapt the worker to the workplace 
 
11. Under Factories and Machinery( Noise Exposure Regulations) 1989, Employees 
should not be exposed to ; 
I. continuous noise levels exceeding 90dB(A) averaged over 8 working hours, 
or an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA). 
II. Exceed 115 dB(A) at any time  
III. Exceed 140dB level at any time 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. Factories and Machinery Act 1967, ILBS, ISBN 967-89-0418-8 
2. Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994,  
3. Mohamad A`azizan mustafa dan Azhar ahmed rifaie (2010).XBOH2103 Occupational .   
Safety and Health Management. OUM 
4. Guidelines on Occupational Safety And Health Management System 2011 .ISBN 
978-983-2014-75-1 
5. Industry Code Of Practice For Safe Working In A Confined Space 2010 ISBN 
983201469-7 
6. Guidelines on Occupational Safety And Health Management System 2 011.ISBN 
978-983-2014-75-1 
7. Abu Bakar Che Man and David Gold 1993 A Training Manual of Safety In The Use 
Of Chemical, ILO 