 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM/  
PROGRAM CODE & NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP/ LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA07 CHANGE MANAGEMENT AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN/ ABILITY 
NO. AND STATEMENT 
 
07.01 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
OBJECTIVE  
07.02 OBSERVE CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
METHODOLOGY 
07.03 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
INITIATIVE 
07.04 ADHERE TO COACHING & MENTORING  
IMPLEMENTATION 
07.05 PERFORMANCE ORGANISATION BRANDING 
 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   14 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : CHANGE MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVE 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
 
This Information Sheet will explain about the objective of change management. Change 
management is an approach to transitioning  individuals, teams, and  organizations to a 
desired future state.  In a project management context, change management may refer 
to a project management process wherein changes to the scope of a project are formally 
introduced and approved. 
 
  
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  2 
Drpd/ of :  14 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION :  
 
 
1. The Nature And Complexity Of Work 
 
1.1  Change management is a structured approach for ensuring that changes 
are thoroughly and smoothly implemented, and that the lasting benefits of 
change are achieved. 
1.2  The focus is on the wider impacts of change, particularly on people and 
how they, as individuals and teams, move from the current situation to the new 
one. The chan ge in question could range from a simple process change, to 
major changes in policy or strategy needed if the organization is to achieve its 
potential. 
1.3  Theories about how organizations change draw on many disciplines, from 
psychology and behavioral scienc e, through to engineering and systems 
thinking. The underlying principle is that change does not happen in isolation – 
it impacts the whole organization (system) around it, and all the people touched 
by it. 
1.4  In order to manage change successfully, it is th erefore necessary to 
attend to the wider impacts of the changes. As well as considering the tangible 
impacts of change, it's important to consider the personal impact on those 
affected, and their journey towards working and behaving in new ways to 
support the change. The  Change Curve  is a useful model that describes the 
personal and organizational process of change in more detail. 
1.5  Change management is, therefore, a very broad field, and a pproaches to 
managing change vary widely, from organization to organization and from 
project to project. Many organizations and consultants subscribe to formal 
change management methodologies. These provide toolkits, checklists and 
outline plans of what needs to be done to manage changes successfully. 
1.6  When we are tasked with "managing change" (irrespective of whether or 
not we subscribe to a particular change management approach), the first 
question to consider is what chang e management actually means in our 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  3 
Drpd/ of :  14 
situation. Change management focuses on people, and is about ensuring 
change is thoroughly, smoothly and lastingly implemented.  
1.7   The following objectives (goals) are how organizations deliver change: 
i) Establish a Culture of Innovation 
If our culture is  in the habit of resisting change - every change will 
be difficult. Establishing a culture that's creative and accepting of 
change is a high priority objective for every  change management 
practice. 
ii) Establish Principles for Change 
Change management principles  are the lifeblood of our innovation 
culture. They set expectations to everyone in our organization — we 
aggressively innovate and change 
iii) Develop Innovative Strategies 
Change management is a strategy game. Develop and implement 
strong culture, communication and performance management 
strategies. 
iv) Establish Best Practices for Innovation 
Develop best practices for tactical change management. 
v) Develop Change Leaders 
Change is a  leadership activity at every level  of your organization. 
Develop our leaders of change. 
vi) Empower Agents of Change 
Delegate sufficient authority to leaders of change and support them. 
vii) Identify Change Accountability & Responsibility 
Set clear expectations for change accountability and 
responsibilities. 
viii) Align Employee Objectives to Change 
Plan to measure all employees according to change objectives. Set 
performance expectations with every employee and invite 
commitment. 
ix) Communicate and Socialize Change 
Communication and socialization of change is critical to 
reducing resistance to change. 
x) Address Concerns and Improve Change 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  4 
Drpd/ of :  14 
Socialize change with a genuine intention to improve it. Address employee 
concerns and act on valuable feedback. 
xi) Apply Knowledge to Change 
Knowledge underpins all change. Ensure that knowledge is leveraged and 
improved. 
xii) Train Employees to Prepare Them For Change 
Training reduces change execution problems and improves acceptance of 
change. 
xiii) Achieve Employee Participation In Change 
It's not enough to give employees objectives to support change. Change 
management seeks employee engagement. Deploy strategies to energiz e 
your organization around change. 
xiv) Create a Sense of Urgency For Change 
Build empathy in our people for the change. Communicate to ensure 
employees are aware of the external forces (e.g. competition) that make 
change an urgent need. 
xv) Maintain Change Momentum 
Too often changes start on a high note and then lose momentum. Keep 
employees informed and engaged on a daily basis. 
xvi) Recognize & Celebrate Change Milestones 
Celebrate small victories to maintain change velocity. 
xvii) Manage Performance 
Change management actively aligns with performance management. 
xviii) Reward Agents of Change 
Establish incentives for the agents of change early on. Reward results. 
xix) Gain Acceptance of Change 
Launch the change and gain acceptance. 
xx) Learn From Change 
Use our failures and successes to build organizational knowledge. 
xxi) Measure Change Results 
Measure the business results of change. 
xxii) Sustain Change 
Change is a long term, sustainable strategy. Avoid destroying the future 
with a change today. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  5 
Drpd/ of :  14 
 
2. Project Resources 
 
2.1 The resources of an organization consist of people, materials, equipment, 
knowledge and time. Organizations typically have limited resources; therefore, 
tradeoffs on what project resources are expended and when are made every 
day within organizations. A  resource allocation plan is an important tool in 
effective management of scarce resources. 
 
2.2 The timing of the need of those resources can be and should be 
determined within the  project schedules. A resource plan, which describes the 
type of resource needed and the timing of tha t need, is critical to 
effective resource management. As the  project schedule changes, the resource 
plan must also be flexible enough to adjust as these changes occur. 
 
2.3 In developing resource plans, there is little chance that the project 
manager will have  all of the necessary resources assigned to the project at its 
start. The fact is when starting a project the details of that project are typically 
unknown. Therefore, knowing the types and duration of resources necessary is 
not always possible. 
 
2.4  Known kn owns are events that can be planned for. In building the 
schedule, some deliverables can be decomposed in sufficient detail creating 
tasks, while other deliverables will only be known at the highest level. When 
details of a deliverable are not sufficiently  known, a planning package should be 
used. 
 
2.5  The details of the deliverables defined within planning packages can be 
considered known unknowns, or risks. In these instances, the work has not been 
fully decomposed. 
 
2.6  Known planning events, as well as planni ng packages, can be assigned 
individual resources and durations that have been established by the people 
who will be doing the work. The only difference is in planning packages, the 
duration and resource estimates are typically less accurate. The use of hi storical 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  6 
Drpd/ of :  14 
information or industry standards can provide a higher degree of confidence in 
estimates, when available. 
 
2.7  It is not necessary to have all deliverables decomposed and assigned to 
individuals prior to beginning work on a project. In fact, it is very common to set 
a baseline schedule and resource plan based on planning package estimates. 
 
2.8  As the project progresses, these known unknowns become clearer to the 
project team warranting changes within the project schedule and resource plan. 
 
2.9  Events that cannot be planned for are called unknown unknowns. These 
events are not known in the realm of possibilities, yet could occur. An example is 
a warehouse fire that destroys inventory and delays the project completion. This 
would not normally be factored in as a known event during the project planning, 
so it is an unknown unknown.  
 
2.10  Since projects are unique and temporary endeavors, project managers will 
always work in a world of unknowns. Therefore, resource management and 
planning should continue throughout the project life cycle. 
 
 
3 Work Schedule 
 
3.1 Milestone 
 
i) Many times the implementation team will focus on Go and No Go decisions 
that give special emphasis to executing the change in a way as technically 
efficiently as possible, without necessarily considering the effects on the 
people involved.  
 
ii) We know that people generally follow a predictable path when dealing with 
change and transitions.  
 
iii) Here are five milestones that help the change management team ensure that 
people make the transitions that will make the change easier and more likely 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  7 
Drpd/ of :  14 
to succeed: 
 
a) We have adequately communicated the reasons for the project so 
that everyone is AWARE of the need for change. 
b) We have created and communicated an engaging vision of the 
future so that people DESIRE the change. 
c) We have identified legitimate concerns from everyone involved, and 
provided everyone with the  KNOWLEDGE to address their 
concerns and contribute to project. 
d) We have given people the  ABILITY to participate, test and explore 
the options in the project and maximize its potential. 
e) We have provided  REINFORCEMENT and rewards so that people 
can own, internalize and celebrate the success of the project. 
 
iv) Think of these as Go and No Go statements where the team should only 
move on to the next step in the project if they can comfortably agree with 
the milestone statement. 
 
v) The model known as ADKAR (Awareness, Desire, Knowledge, Ability, 
Reinforcement), is well researched and has been around for a long time. 
You can see from the diagram how the milestones fit in with the different 
stages of peoples’ reactions to change. 
 
3.2 Change Management Activities 
 
i) Once we have considered the change management objectives and scope, 
we wi ll also need to consider the specific tasks. Again, the range of 
possible activities is broad. It's a question of working out what will best help 
we meet the change challenge in hand. 
 
ii) The essence of this is to identify the tasks that are necessary if we a re 
going to give change the greatest chance of success. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  8 
Drpd/ of :  14 
iii) Coming from this, the activities involved in managing change can 
include: 
a) Ensuring there is  clear expression of the reasons for change, and 
helping the sponsor communicate this. 
b) Identifying "change agents" and other people who need to be 
involved in specific change activities, such as design, testing, and 
problem solving, and who can then act as ambassadors for change. 
c) Assessing all the stakeholders and defining the nature of 
sponsorship, involvement and communication that will be required. 
d) Planning the involvement and project activities of the change 
sponsor(s). 
e) Planning how and when the changes  will be communicated, and 
organizing and/or delivering the communications messages. 
f) Assessing the impact of the changes on people and the 
organization's structure. 
g) Planning activities needed to address the impacts of the change. 
h) Ensuring that people invol ved and affected by the change 
understand the process change. 
i) Making sure those involved or affected have help and support 
during times of uncertainty and upheaval. 
j) Assessing training needs driven by the change, and planning when 
and how this will be implemented. 
k) Identifying and agreeing the success indicators for change, and 
ensure they are regularly measured and reported on. 
iv) Remember, these are just some typical change management 
activities. Others may be required in our specific situation. Equally, 
some of the above may not be within our remit, so plan carefully, and 
coordinate with other people involved. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  9 
Drpd/ of :  14 
 
3.3 Change Management Process 
i) The change management process is the sequence of steps or 
activities that a change management team or project leader would 
follow to apply change management to a project or change. Based 
on Prosci's research  of the most effective and commonly applied 
change, they have created a change managem ent process that 
contains the following three phases: 
 
Figure 3.1 : Preparing for change (Preparation, assessment and strategy 
development). 
 
ii) The first phase in Prosci's methodology is aimed at  getting ready. It 
answers the question. "how much change management is needed for 
this specific project?" The first phase provides the situational 
awareness that is critical for effective change management. 
 
iii) Outputs of Phase 1 
 
a) Change characteristics profile 
b) Organizational attributes profile 
c) Change management strategy 
d) Change management team structure 
e) Sponsor assessment, structure and roles 


----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  10 
Drpd/ of :  14 
 
 
Figure 3.2 : Managing change (Detailed planning and change management 
implementation). 
 
iv) The second phase of Prosci's process is focused on creating 
the plans that are integrated into the project activities - what people 
typically think of when they talk about change management. Based on 
Prosci's research, there are five plans that should be created to help 
individuals move through the ADKAR Model. 
 
v) Outputs of Phase 2 
a) Communication plan 
b) Sponsor roadmap 
c) Training plan 
d) Coaching plan 
e) Resistance management plan 
 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  11 
Drpd/ of :  14 
 
Figure 3.3 - Reinforcing change (Data gathering, corrective action and 
recognition). 
vi) Equally critical but most often overlooked, the third phase of Prosci's 
process helps project teams create specific action plans for ensuring 
that the change issustained. In this phase, project teams develop 
measures and mechanisms to see if the change has taken hold, to the 
see if employees are actually doing their jobs the new way and to 
celebrate success. 
vii) Outputs of Phase 3 
a) Reinforcement mechanisms 
b) Compliance audit reports 
c) Corrective action plans 
d) Individual and group recognition approaches 
e) Success celebrations 
f) After action review 
 
 
  


----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
12 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  12 
Drpd/ of :  14 
3.4 Deadline 
i) The following concepts will help the organization deal with their 
deadlines. 
a) Two-way Communication 
The first thing to communicate to the team about meeting deadlines 
is to communicate. It is vital that everyone on the team understands 
the importance of two -way communication in meeting deadlin es. 
Deadlines should be communicated often and in advance by the 
manager so that everyone understands the deadlines that are 
coming down the pipeline. On the flip side, the team needs to 
understand that they need to communicate the progress and status 
of meeting their deadlines. The manager will be provided with 
needed support for meeting deadlines. 
b) Task Breakdown 
In the plan, tasks should be broken down into the smallest parts that 
can be tracked. All the tasks will have deadlines, but within the plan, 
some deadlines are more important than others. As the schedule is 
created and the tasks are broken down into units of work that the 
employees will perform, the manager should work to identify the 
major deadlines that must be met by the employees. These 
deadlines might be the critical path, or they might be dictated in the 
contract, or identified by some other means during the planning 
phase. All of that information must be communica ted clearly to the 
employees. 
c) Lead Time and Lag Time 
Managers may spend a great deal of time working with the lead and 
lag time of tasks in the schedule, and it is important that the team 
also understands the lead and lag time for tasks. This will help the m 
see the big picture and stay focused on meeting the deadlines. If 
they know why they need to wait before starting a certain task or 
why some tasks overlap and others do not, then they will be able to 
keep better track of what is going on with their work because they 
understand the big picture. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  13 
Drpd/ of :  14 
 
d) Multi-tasking Versus Focus 
In today’s world, almost everyone multi -tasks. It seems to be a 
constant around us. Cell phones and alerts go off on your desk, in 
the evening, emails ding at you, and even when you are  away from 
the office, you carry your job in your pocket. It is worth discussing 
with your project team that focusing on one task at a time can be a 
huge benefit in completing work timely and with quality results. 
Tuning out the emails and distractions will help everyone get the job 
done. It can be hard to unplug from all the distractions, but focusing 
on the work at hand is well worth it when you are faced with hard 
deadlines that must be met. 
 
ii) Change management is a broad discipline that involves ensuring  
change is implemented smoothly and with lasting benefits, by 
considering its wider impact on the organization and people within it. 
Each change initiative us manage or encounter will have its own unique 
set of objectives and activities, all of which must be coordinated. 
iii) As a change manager, the role is to ease the journey towards new 
ways of working, and need a set of tools along the way. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  14 
Drpd/ of :  14 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
 
1. What is the definition of change management? 
 
2. What is the first question to consider, when you are tasked with managing change? 
 
3. Discuss, how the change management will be occured in the organizations. 
 
4. List 5 (five) milestones that help the change management team ensure the change 
easier and more likely to succeed. 
 
5. State the activities involved in the management change. 
 
6. Based on Prosci's research, what is the the most effective activities to execute the 
change management process? 
 
7. List the deadlines concepts, in order to ensure the change management process 
achived. 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_management 1 August 2015, 9.35pm 
2. http://management.simplicable.com/management/new/22-change-management-
objectives 1 August 2015, 4.08pm  
3. http://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newPPM_87.htm 1 August 2015, 4.12pm  
4. http://farrarsfaucet.blogspot.com/2009/06/change-management-milestones.html                           
1 August 2015, 5.03pm 
5. https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/teaching-your-team-to-deal-with-deadlines.php                              
1 August 2015, 5.39pm 
6. http://www.change-management.com/tutorial-methodology-overview.htm 3 August 
2015, 11.14am 
 