 
12 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM/  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP/ LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS/ 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA07 CHANGE MANAGEMENT AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN/ ABILITY 
NO. AND STATEMENT 
 
07.01 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
OBJECTIVE  
07.02 OBSERVE CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
METHODOLOGY 
07.03 ADHERE TO CHANGE MANAGEMENT 
INITIATIVE 
07.04 ADHERE TO COACHING & MENTORING  
IMPLEMENTATION 
07.05 PERFORMANCE ORGANISATION BRANDING 
 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   8 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : COACHING AND MENTORING IMPLEMENTATION 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
This Information Sheet is intended to describe  the requirements to maintain and ensure 
the effectiveness of change management in the organization,specifically on Coaching 
and Mentoring Implementation.The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to 
implement change management in accordance to the recommended methodology   
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION :  
 
1. Counseling,Coaching And Mentoring During Change Management 
 
1.1 What is counselling?  
i) Defined as discussion of an emotional problem with an employee, with 
the general objective of decreasing it. Therefore, counseling:  
a) Deals with an emotional problem. 
b) Is an act of communication. 
c) Is generally to understand and/or decrease an employee’s 
emotional  disorder 
d) Can be done by both, the managers and the professionally trained  
counselors.  
 
ii) Counseling is warranted when one notices an inability to cope  with the 
environment,in this case; Change in Management. This inability 
manifests in behaviour  disorder which in 
turn  does  lead  to  harm  to  self,   the organization  and  others working 
therein. Feelings can not be ignored.   They are facts and more so to the 
individual concerned.    Managers desire the employees to maintain a 
reasonable emotion al equilibrium and to chanelize the emotions to 
constructive activities. 
 
iii) Any condition, on or off the job, may need counseling.   These conditions 
can be from:   
a) Job dissatisfaction, 
b) Resistance to change, or, 
c) Alienation, Disorientation etc.   
 
iv) Other major conditions that must be clearly understood are:   
a) Frustrations, 
b) Conflicts, or, 
c) Stress.   
 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
v) Frustration occurs when the motivation is blocked preventing one from 
reaching the desired goal. Frustration can be short term -event related or 
long term -aspiration related. The longer the frustration, the greater the 
problem. Frustration usually is reacted to in any of the following ways.  
a) Aggression, 
b) Apathy, 
c) Withdrawal, 
d) Regression,   
e) Fixation, 
f) Physical disorders, or, 
g) Substituted goals.   
 
vi) Counseling can help reduce frustration, by helping the employees to 
choose a mature course of action to r emove blo ckages preventing goal 
accomplishment, or by helping them to reconcile with the reality. 
Counselors will have to work with both, the employee and the 
Management.   
 
vii) Conflicts: Both the interpersonal and inter -group conflicts may cause 
emotional disorders. When people of different backgrounds, points of 
view, values, needs and personalities interact a variety of conflicts may 
arise.   
 
vii) Conflicts are not always bad . Ideally, while handling conflicts, try to 
reduce the disadvantages and to increase the benefits. Conflicts stimulate 
people to look for better approaches for improved results. Often, hidden 
problems surface and a deeper understanding may develop.   
 
x) On the othe r hand, cooperation and teamwork may suffer, distrust may 
grow, and the loser may attempt continuance of the conflicts to settle the 
score. The organization’s basic goal is to move the conflicts into a win -win 
possibility, so that no one feels lost and in fact all feel having won.   
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
15 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
xi) Counseling assists conflict resolution by reducing emotional blockages. 
xii) Counseling objectives are achieved through performing one of the 
following counseling functions: 
a) Advise. 
b) Reassure, 
c) Communicate, 
d) Release of emotional tensions, 
e) Clarified thinking, and, 
f) Reorientation.  
 
xiii) Who should do the counseling?Normally it’s the job of the direct superior 
e.g. supervisors,managers or anyone superior in hierarchy but professional 
help is sometimes sought i.e.consultants or professional counselor 
 
xii) Who ever becomes the counselor, he/she must meet these conditions in 
the counseling relationship : 
a)  Counselee should psychologically accept the counselor. 
b)  Counselor must be able to listen well and communicate effectively. 
c)  An atmosphere of trust and confidence. 
d)  Credibility & Sensitivity of the counselor. 
 
1.2 What is coaching? 
i) It is defined as a method of directing, instructing and training a person or 
group of people, with the aim to achieve some goal  or develop specific 
skills. There are many ways to coach, types of coaching and methods to 
coaching. Direction may include motivational speaking and training may 
include seminars, workshops, and supervised practice 
 
ii) The benefits of coaching is that the in dividual will be able to improve their 
work performance and skill set by receiving one -on-one training to develop 
career prospects.  
 
iii) The majority of coaching  is generally delivered within an organisation by 
an immediate supervisior or manager. However, many organisations these 
days employ professional external coaches to come into their organisation 

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
16 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
to provide this service.   Coaches should be willing to listen, observe and 
support the coachee's ability, knowledge and resourcefulness.  
 
iv) External coaches are trained to deliver specific individual coaching 
sessions to meet the individual needs, following the methods of setting 
clear standards, goals, use of learning, feedback and evaluation.  
1.3 Differences between Coaching and Mentoring? 
The differences between coaching and mentoring are quite clear: 
i) Coaching 
Generally follows the format of individual guidance that is focused on job 
performance and aimed at one person alone. The coach specificially  advises 
the person on how to tackle and perform a particular task, they provide 
constructive feedback and delegate further similiar tasks, setting goals or 
higher-level tasks for the individual to complete. The coach in most instances 
will be an immediate  supervisior or manager who will have overall 
resonsibility for the department's overall performance. Coaching is about 
having a positive relationship where the coachee respects, trusts and 
identifies with the coach. 
ii) Mentoring 
Generally follows the format of generalised advice and guidance of career 
development. Mentoring is about developing a relationship between a more 
senior and experienced mentor and an inexperienced mentee to guide and 
develop the mentee's knowledge and career progression. The mentor 
generally will be someone who is not your immediate supervisor/manager or 
within your organisation can allow the luxury of talking to an independent 
impartial confidante who is not your manager, they will have the ability to 
listen to your issues, afford yo u the opportunity to vent unrestrictedly and 
support and assist you in achieving your goals.   
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
17 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
However saying this, some organisations who offer mentoring for their 
employees may allocate a mentor within the organisation who has similiar 
standing, status and power as your immediate supervisior. 
  
1.4 Why is coaching important during change management ? 
i) To u nderstand when a coaching approach will be appropriate and 
effective. 
ii) To create the right environment for effective coaching – based on trust 
and credibility. 
iii) To w ork collaboratively through building rapport and communicating 
effectively. 
iv) To understand organisational constraints and how to manage these to 
develop a culture of coaching. 
v) To understand the relationship between your natural leadership s tyle 
and effective coaching. 
vi) To set measurable objectives and link to the GROW model to offer a 
rounded approach to coaching. 
vii) To r ecognise the importance of role modelling, and great 
communication skills. 
viii) To deliver feedback to improve performance even when the going gets 
tough.  
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
18 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.1 : Change Management Iceberg 
 
2. Opportunity In Change Management 
2.1 Management should capitalize the opportunity in timing during the 
environment where changes are imminent.  
 
2.2 Several opportunity can be learnt/implemented such as : 
i) Knowing individual’s knowledge, skills and abilities 
ii) Identify potential employee with leadership traits 
iii) Identify strength/weaknesses in the organization 
iv) Able to address specific knowledge and skill gaps of specific people 
v) Opportunity to implement new/improved planning and policies 
vi) Improve productivity and minimize liabilities  
vii) Communicate the organizational vision 
viii) Create better working culture 
  


----PAGE BREAK----

4 
 
 
19 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M07/P(4/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
1. What is the Counseling? 
 
2. What is coaching? 
 
3. What is the difference between coaching and mentoring? 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. https://www.illumine.co.uk/meetings-facilitation-and-coaching/high-performance-
coaching/ 
2. http://www.hrwale.com/counselling-skills/counseling-strategies/ 
3. http://www.hrzone.com/lead/change/three-things-to-avoid-when-facing-change 
4. http://www.managerwise.com/article.phtml?id=155 
5. http://hrinz.org.nz/Site/My_HR_Career/Coaching/What_is_Coaching.aspx 
6. http://opportunityculture.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/Change_Management-
Public_Impact.pdf 
 