 
1 
 
 
 
         
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’SCODE 
AND NAME 
Z-009-4: 2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
 
CA05 STRATEGIC THINKING SKILL 
 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
05.01 ADVOCATE EFFECTIVE THINKING 
05.02 COMPLY WITH EFECTIVE ANALYSIS  
05.03 APPLY STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES 
05.04 APPLY BUDGETARY CONTROL PROCEDURES 
05.05 APPLY PROBLEM SOLVING  TECHNIQUES 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
MukaSurat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  9 
 
TAJUK/TITLE: STRESS MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUE  
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This information sheet is intended to describe the requirement to create a stress free work 
environment in workplace. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to reduce 
stress at work, aside from the obvious humanitarian and ethical considerations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEK D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  2 
Drpd. / of:  9 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
 1. Causes Lead To Stress 
 1.1 : Employers should provide a stress-free work environment, recognise where stress is   
  becoming a problem for staff, and take action to reduce stress. Stress in the workplace   
  reduces productivity, increases management pressures, and makes people ill in many  
  ways. Workplace stress affects the performance of the brain, including functions of work  
  performance; memory, concentration, and learning. Through surveys, stress is believed  
  to trigger 70% of visits to doctors, and 85% of serious illnesses. Stress at work also  
  provides a serious risk of litigation for all employers and organisations, carrying  
  significant liabilities for damages, bad publicity and loss of reputation. Dealing with  
  stress-related claims also consumes vast amounts of management time.  
 
   1.2 : Whatever kind of job is involved in, you would always find several factors that lead  
    to severe stress. It isn't easy to point on just one or two causes of stress. There are  
    several factors that could contribute towards a person suffering from all sorts of stress. 
   You must understand what causes stress if you are to efficiently try and reduce stress  
   from your lifestyle. 
 
   1.3 : Everyone has different stress triggers. According to the surveys, work stress is the  
    biggest source of stress in our lives. Causes of work stress include:- 
i) Being unhappy in your job 
ii) Having a heavy workload or too much responsibility 
iii) Working long hours 
iv) Having poor management, unclear expectations of your work, or no say in the 
decision-making process 
v) Working under dangerous conditions 
vi) Being insecure about your chance for advancement or risk of termination 
vii) Having to give speeches in front of colleagues 
viii) Facing discrimination or harassment at work, especially if your company isn't 
supportive. 
 
    1.4 : Life stresses are other reasons that could contribute to individual suffering  
     from severe stress outside the workplace. Examples of life stresses are: 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  3 
Drpd. / of:  9 
i) The death of a loved one 
ii) Divorce 
iii) Loss of a job 
iv) Increase in financial obligations 
v) Getting married 
vi) Moving to a new home 
vii) Chronic illness or injury 
viii) Emotional problems (depression, anxiety, anger, grief, guilt, low self-esteem) 
ix) Taking care of an elderly or sick family member 
x) Traumatic event, such as a natural disaster, theft, rape, or violence against you 
or a loved one 
 
    1.5 : Sometimes the stress comes from inside, rather than outside. You can stress  
     just by worrying about things. These inner stress factors can lead to : 
i) Fear and uncertainty. When you regularly hear about the robberies, snatch 
thieves, global warming, and toxic chemicals on the news, it can cause you to 
be stressed. Fears can also hit closer to home, such as being worried that you 
won't finish a project at work or won't have enough money to pay your bills this 
month. 
ii) Attitudes and perceptions. How you view a particular situation can determine 
whether it causes stress. For example, if your television set is stolen and you 
take the attitude not to bother about it, you'll be far less stressed. Similarly, 
people who doing a good job at workplace will be less stressed than those who 
are incompetent. 
iii) Unrealistic expectations. No one is perfect. If you expect to do everything right 
all the time, you're destined to feel stressed when things don't go as expected. 
iv) Change. Any major life change can be stressful. Most unpleasant events, such 
as a divorce, major financial setback, or death in the family can be significant 
sources of stress. 
 
     1.6 : Your stress level will differ based on your personality and how you respond to  
      situations. Some people let everything roll off their back. To them, work stresses and  
      life stresses are just minor bumps in the road.  
 
     1.7 : Failure to understand and eliminate these elements that cause the stress could  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  4 
Drpd. / of:  9 
      eventually lead to dire consequences. These elements are generally known as  
      stressors and are found in plenty in the workplace. It is not only the employees,  
 
           who need to identify these stressors, but also the organization itself would need to  
           take relevant steps. 
 
Figure 1.7 – Common Causes Of Stress 
 
2. Effects of Stress on Your Health 
    2.1 : When you are in a stressful situation, your body launches a physical response.  
    Your nervous system springs into action, releasing hormones that prepare you to  
    either fight or take off. It's called the "fight or flight" response, and it's why, when  
    you're in a stressful situation, you may notice that your heartbeat speeds up, your  
    breathing gets faster, your muscles tense, and you start to sweat. This kind of stress is   
    short-term and temporary (acute stress), and your body usually recovers quickly from it. 
 
    2.2 : But if your stress system stays activated over a long period of time (chronic stress),  
     it can lead to more serious health problems. The constant rush of stress hormones can  
     put a lot of wear and tear on your body, causing it to age more quickly and making it  
     more prone to illness. 
 
     2.3 : If you've been stressed out for a short period of time, you may start to notice some  
     of these physical signs: 
i) Headache 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  5 
Drpd. / of:  9 
ii) Fatigue 
iii) Difficulty sleeping 
iv) Difficulty concentrating 
v) Upset stomach 
vi) Irritability 
 
   2.4 : When stress becomes long-term and is not properly addressed, it can lead to a  
    serious health conditions, including: 
i) Depression 
ii) High blood pressure 
iii) Abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia) 
iv) Hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis) 
v) Heart disease 
vi) Heart attack 
vii) Heartburn, ulcers, irritable bowel syndrome 
viii) Upset stomach -- cramps, constipation, and diarrhea 
ix) Weight gain or loss 
x) Changes in sex drive 
xi) Fertility problems 
xii) Flare-ups of asthma or arthritis 
xiii) Skin problems such as acne, eczema, and psoriasis 
xiv) Managing your stress can make a real difference to your health. One study 
showed that women with heart disease lived longer if they underwent a stress 
management program. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  6 
Drpd. / of:  9 
         
 
Figure 1 – Stress Cycle Effect 
 
3. Stress Identification 
    3.1 : At a clinical level, stress in individuals can be be assessed scientifically by  
     measuring the levels of two hormones produced by the adrenal glands: cortisol  
     and DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone). 
 
   3.2 : At a workplace, managers do not have access to these methods. Managers must 
    therefore rely on other signs. Some of these are not exclusively due to stress, nor are  
    they certain proof of stress, but they are indicators to prompt investigation as to whether  
    stress is present.  
 
    3.3 : There are ten key stress indicators as a simple initial stress test. 
i) Sleep difficulties 
ii) Loss of appetite 
iii) Poor concentration or poor memory retention 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  7 
Drpd. / of:  9 
iv) Performance dip 
v) Uncharacteristic errors or missed deadlines 
vi) Anger or tantrums 
vii) Violent or anti-social behaviour 
viii) Emotional outbursts 
ix) Alcohol or drug abuse 
x) Nervous habits 
 
4. Stress Reduction Techniques 
    4.1 : The key to de-stressing is removing yourself from the stressor. Developing new  
    habits which regularly remove you and distract you from stressors and stressful  
    situations and pressures is essentially how to manage stress on a more permanent  
    basis. 
 
    4.2 : In this modern world it is difficult if not impossible to change stressful situations.  
    What we can do however is change and reduce our exposure to those stressful  
    situations. 
 
   4.3 : These stress reduction ideas and techniques are based on simple principle. These  
   techniques won't change the situation causing the stress, but they will, more importantly,  
   enable you to change your reaction and relationship to the stressful situations. 
 
   4.4 : There are six quick stress reduction techniques  
           i) Humour 
              a) Humour is one of the greatest and quickest devices for reducing stress. 
              b) Humour works because laughter produces helpful chemicals in the brain. 
              c) Humour also gets your brain thinking and working in a different way. It distracts  
                  you from having a stressed mindset. Distraction is a simple effective de- 
                  stressor It takes your thoughts away from the stress, and thereby diffuses the  
                  stressful feelings. Therefore most people will feel quite different and notice a  
                  change in mindset after laughing and being distracted by something humorous. 
  
          ii) Brisk walk and self-talk 
              a) Change your environment. Go for a short quick brisk walk outside by leave the  
                  workplace building. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  8 
Drpd. / of:  9 
              b) Breathe in some fresh air and smell the atmosphere. Trees, rain, flowers,  
                  traffic fumes stimulate your senses with new things. 
              c) On your way out keep saying to yourself out loudly.  
              d) You can extend the exercise by going to a park and jogging a little or doing  
                  something energetic to get your body moving and relaxing. 
              e) You can use other mantras or chants, depending on what you want to do and  
                  how far you want to get away from the stress causes.  
              f) Sometimes the people said this is daft, but the daftness reduces the stress by  
                 removing you from the stress in mind and body.  
 
         iii) Rehydrate 
              a) Get a big cup or a bottle of plain water. Most of us fail to drink enough plain  
                  water. 
              b) All of your organs, including your brain, are strongly dependent on water to  
                  function properly. If you starve, your body will function below your best  
                  physically and mentally.  
             c) Most of workplaces commonly have a very dry atmosphere due to air 
                 conditioning, which increases people's susceptibility to de-hydration.  
             d) When you drink lot of water you need to pee. This gives you a bit of a break  
                 and a bit of exercise now and then, which also reduces stress.  
  
        iv) Catnap or powernap 
             a) Take a quick nap. It is nature's way of recharging and re-energising. 
                 A 10-30 minutes' sleep is very helpful to reduce stress. 
           
 
         v) Make a cuppa 
            a) Making a cup of hot drink especially tea and coffee take your mind off your  
                problems.  
 
        vi) Crying 
             a) Crying and weeping proper tears has a powerful helpful effect on stress levels.  
                 Sobbing and weeping does seem to release tension and stress for many  
                 people. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M05/P(3/5) 
Mukasurat / Page :  9 
Drpd. / of:  9 
 
 
 
 
SOALAN / QUESTION: 
 
1. What is cause of stress? 
2. How stresses can effect the work performance?. 
3. How to quick reduce of stress?.  
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://www.webmd.com/balance/guide/causes-of-stress   
 