 
1 
 
 
 
            
KOD DAN NAMA  PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE & NAME Z-009-4:2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4(FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK KEBOLEHAN 
TERAS/ CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
CA01ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR  
AWARENESS 
NO.DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / ABILITY NO. 
AND STATEMENT 
01.01 ADHERE TO CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK 
OF THE ORGANISATION. 
01.02 ENHANCE TEAMWORK  
01.03 DEMONSTRATE WORK DELEGATION 
CAPABILITY 
01.04 ENSURE SYSTEMATIC DOCUMENTATION 
01.05 ENCOURAGE ORGANISATION EVENT 
COORDINATION  
01.06 COMPLY WITH TRAINING REQUIREMENT 
PROCEDURES 
01.07 RECOGNIZE STAFF VERTICAL MOBILITY 
POTENTIAL 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page : 1 
Drpd / of     : 9 
 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:TRAINING COMPLIANCE  
 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
 
The person who is competent in this C A shall be able to aware, understand and adhere to 
organisational policies and management system requirements. This information sheet is 
used to provide information on the training requirement program including related 
procedures and mechanism involved to measure the workers performance. The 
competent workers are amongst the provital factors which could  positively impact 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA  
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  2 
Drpd / of:  9 
organisational performanceand enable the organisation to gain a competitive advantage in 
a global marketplace. 
 
 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
 
1 Overview 
In the contemporary era of globalisation, human being’s intellectuality is improving day by 
day with innovations. The mentality of the human being is expandingbecause in modern 
era behavior of seeking knowledge and acquiring skills is on its top. There is a high influx 
of innovative skills and knowledge and every professional are keen to acquire those 
innovations, in order to make significant contribution in his field of expertise. These 
attributes of skills and knowledge plays vital role in profes sional and personal 
development of the intellectuals. The challenges associated with the changing nature of 
work and the workplace environment is as real for each and every professional. 
Rapid change requires a skilled, knowledgeable workforce in organizat ions who are 
adaptive, flexible, and focused on the future. In modern era, well reputed and optimistic 
organizations are focusing on capacity building of their employees. Employers provide 
opportunities and platforms for training and development of the sta ff from time to time in 
order to endorse new knowledge and skills which enable workforce to adapt new 
environment in contemporary market.  
Trainning is an essential tool with aims to facilitate the professionals as well as 
organizations in transferring new and essential skills prevailing in the current market to 
working force. It focuses on providing best service for ensuring best growth and career 
development of employees by coaching, and by helping employees achieve their personal 
goals by providing adequate training and encouragement of staff development, and 
educating about opportunities for growth which are currently prevailing in the market. 
The effective training program should be designed to strengthen the managerial and 
organizational capacity required to perform effectively (to achieve set objectives) and 
efficiently (at optimum costs). In addition, it is also help to maximize the workforce  
performance and foster their capabilities. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  3 
Drpd / of:  9 
The skills development achieved derived from training have many important benefits 
including: 
i) improved people productivity; 
ii) personal self development and growth; 
iii) shared concepts, models and frameworks with which to analyse, understand 
and plan for performance improvements; 
iv) increased co-operation, supportiveness and mutual trust; 
v) stronger connectedness across departments and management levels; 
vi) practical techniques and methods to implement a living vision, mission and 
value set; 
vii) skills and techniques to handle interface activities between important 
stakeholder groups. 
 
2 Training procedure requirements 
The training requirements, in particular, training procedures, trainer identification, trainee’s 
assessment and proper training schedule apply to the new employees, retraining 
employees and re-verification of employee’s performance. 
2.1 Training procedures for employee 
 
The employer provides training and education programs that are designed to give an 
employee the ability to perform the job duties to the best of his abilities. The employer 
must identify the proper andsuitable methods for organizing training program. There are 
different types oftraining m odes such as lecture , self -study packages, case -
study,mentoring, course training, coa ching, self -help study groups  and computer aided 
training. The training methods such as verbal instruction, written instruction, performance 
modeling, performance practice and  feedback shall be introduced to ensure the effective 
learning of the employee du ring the training session. Besides the methods of training , 
allocation of resources are the key activities need to be considered. The employer must 
identify the  available resources such as audio visual aids, course  materials, qualified 
trainers and classro om facilities to conduct a series of  required training programs. The 
effective training which complies with relevant requirements is  imperative to ensure the 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  4 
Drpd / of:  9 
employee is competent and skilled to carry out the job/task once the training is complete 
to maximize their productivity. 
2.2 Trainer’s identification 
While choosing the suitable training methods, the trainer or team leader must take into 
account some of the key aspects such as the culture of the organisation, learning style, 
competency or maturity level of the members and the difficulty level of the subjects. The 
team leader or trainer must be flexible in choosing the appropriate methods of training 
based on the specific requirement. 
The selection of trainer should be based on the ability of the trainer to understand the role 
and function of that training as a management strategy to help the organisation achieve its 
mission, and know how competency -based training which can promote "best practice" 
throughout the service system. 
The trainer shall understands the importance of maintaining a professional demeanor in  
the training environment, including maintaining standards for dress, adhering to  pre-set 
time frames for the training and being well organized and fully prepared for the training. 
2.3 Training assessment 
 
Most organisations use an evaluation system to ensure that workers are meeting 
necessary job standards. Once the training session is complete, the employee should be 
tested on how well the understanding on the training materials and its concepts. If the job 
involves working with machinery, the testing must reflect the employee’s ability to use the 
equipment safely. These tests can be written assignments or hands-on implementation of 
what was taught in the training session. 
After the employee has been trained and performed duties for a certain period of time, the 
evaluation skills should be assessed. Evaluations provide an employee with feedback on 
the job performance whether he/she is properly implementing company procedures in 
which he/she was trained. If the employee is not following his/her training, he/she will have 
to be retrained on certain procedure.  
2.4 Training schedule 
Training duration may take a couple of days or couple of weeks d epending on the job 
types and the complexity of the subject matters. Periodically, the training sessions should 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  5 
Drpd / of:  9 
also be evaluated to ensure that the  employees are effective and provide the ability to 
perform the required tasks. 
3 Performance management  
Performance metrics are a critical ingredient of performance management,a discipline that 
aligns performance with strategy. Performance management harnesses information  
technology to monitor the execution of organisational strategy and help to achieve the 
goals.Figure 1  shows the performance management attributed to  a four -step virtuous 
cycle that involves creating strategy and plans, monitoring the execution of those plans  as 
well as adjusting activity and objectives  to achieve strategic goals . This four -step wheel 
revolves around integrated data and metrics, which  provide a measurement framework to 
gauge the effectiveness of strategic and management processes. 
 
Figure 1: The performance management cycle. 
 
 
A performance management system (PMS) supports the Figure 1 virtuous cycle. The PMS 
have positive impact if it is properly organized and implemented in the organisation. 
Basically, the PMS is  designed to address the needs of an organisation to measure and 
monitor employee’s performance on continuous basis and to make the system work well. 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  6 
Drpd / of:  9 
3.1 Key Performance Indicators 
One of the mechanism s to measure the organisational performance management is the 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) .A KPI embodies astrategic  objective and  measures 
performance against a goal.The goals attached to a  KPI are multi dimensional: they have 
ranges that are encoded in software, a time frame by which the  goals must be achieved 
and a benchmark against which the goals are compared as shown in Table 1. 
 
Table 1: The elements of a KPI 
 
Strategy KPIs embody a strategic objective. 
Targets 
 
KPIs measure performance against specific targets. Targets are 
defined in strategic, planning or budget sessions and can take 
different forms (e.g., achievement, reduction, absolute, zero). 
Ranges 
Targets have ranges of performance (e.g., above, on, or below 
target). 
Encodings 
 
Ranges are encoded by enabling the visual display of 
performance (e.g., green, yellow, red). Encodings can be based 
on percentages or more complex rules. 
Time frames 
 
Targets are assigned time frames by which they must be 
accomplished. A time frame is often divided into smaller 
intervals to provide mileposts of performance along the way. 
Benchmarks 
 
Targets are measured against a baseline or benchmark. The 
previous year’s results often serve asa benchmark. 
 
3.2 Types of KPIs 
There are two fundamental types of KPIs: 
i. Outcomes 
Outcome KPIs known as lagging indicators which measure the output of past activity. 
Examples include revenues, margins, return on equity, customer satisfaction and 
employee retention. 
ii. Drivers 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  7 
Drpd / of:  9 
Driver KPIs known as leading indicators or value drivers which measure  activities that 
have a significant impact on outcome KPIs. The se KPIs measure activity in its current  
state or a future state.  
The latter is more powerful, since it gives individuals and their managers more time  to 
adjust behavior to influence a desired outcome. 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  8 
Drpd / of:  9 
 
SOALAN/QUESTION: 
 
1. What is the mechanisme to be introduced to new employee in order to adhere to 
organisational policies and procedures? 
2. Explain how the training compliance could shapes patterns of workers  
productivity in the workplace? 
3. How effective is the periodically training implementation to t he success of 
organisation? 
4. How competent workers affect the productivity of the company? 
5. What is Key Performance Indicators  (KPIs)? Explain the co rrelation between the 
Performance Management System and KPIs? 
6. What are the components of the KPI? 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD  /CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(6/7) Mukasurat / Page:  9 
Drpd / of:  9 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. Bucklin, Barbara; Alvero, Alicia; Dickinson, Alyce; Austin , John; Jackson, Austin 
(2000), "Industrial-organisational psychology and organisational behavior 
management: An objective comparison". Journal of Organisational Behavior 
Management 20 (2): 27–75. 
 
2. Butler, M. and Rose, E. (2011) , Introduction to organisaationalbehaviour, 
SecondEdition, London: CIPD. 
 
3. Clegg, S., Kornberger, M. and Pitsis, T. (2012) , Managing and organisations: 
An introduction to theory and practice, Third Edition, London: Sage. 
 
4. Linstead, S, Fulop, L, and Lilley, S. (2009) , Mangement and organisation. Second  
Edition. Basingstoke: Palgrave. 
 
5. Noon, M., Blyton, P., and K Morrell (2013) , The Realities of Work: Experiencing 
Work and Employment in Contemporary Society, Fourth E dition (revised), 
Basingstoke: Palgrave. 
 
6. Wayne W. Eckerson (2009), Performance management strategies; How to create 
and deploy effective metrics, The Data Warehousing Institute. 
 