1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4: 2015CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA02 HEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENTALMONITORING 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
02.01 ENSURE HEALTH AWARENESS PROGRAM 
02.02 ENSURE SAFETY AWARENESS PROGRAM 
02.03 ENSURE ENVIRONMENT AWARENESS  
PROGRAM 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3)  Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of         :  17 
 
TAJUK/TITLE:  HEALTH, SAFETY ANDENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 
PROGRAM PLANNING 
 
TUJUAN/PURPOSE: 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the  planning of necessary health, safety 
and environmental awareness programme that can be conducted at workplace  for 
workers. The person who is competent in this CA shall be able to conduct this program at 
their place of work. 
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  2 
Drpd / of:  17 
PENERANGAN/INFORMATION: 
1.0  Awareness Programme Objectives 
In the workplace, health, safety and environment (HSE) awareness is all about 
understanding the need to prevent avoidable accidents from occu rring, health risks to 
workers and also massive environmental effects. There are three compelling reason why 
every organisations and individuals must accept HSE impact as vital elements of all 
activities in the workplac e which are the humanity, economic and legal. Therefore, it is a 
responsibility of the employers to establish a well-planned HSE awareness program for all 
workers as they: 
 can have potential impacts on the safety, health and environment aspect; and 
 can have good ideas about how to improve safety, health and environmental 
management effort by employers. 
This HSE awareness programmes to be designed and conducted in order to: 
 establish and implement an occupational safety and health, and environmental 
program that can 
- prevent workers injuries, illnesses and fatalities 
- protect the environment through the ongoi ng planning, implementation, 
integration and management control of these programs 
- reduce number of accident 
 provide every workers with the opportunitie s to acquire kno wledge, attitude, value, 
commitment and skills needed to protect and improve the workplace condition and 
environment. In other words, encourage their participation in improving and 
safeguarding not only themselves but the environment; 
 create new behaviours in workers and employers towards HSE; and 
 ensure workers are capable of carrying out their responsibilities at workplace. Skills 
and knowledge on identifying and solving issues regarding work and tasks, which 
can leads to workplace and env ironmental problems, must be gain and practiced 
throughout work. 
 
Every party is involved and plays a huge role in ensuring a planned HSE awareness 
programme been under take successfully. By implementing required elements in the 
awareness programs, all undesirable losses can be minimized by making workplace safer 
to work ers and also to the environment. In other words, this programme can helps 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  3 
Drpd / of:  17 
employers in terms of; 
 improving production / productivity. 
 reducing production cost. 
 reducing damage to plant, machinery and environment. 
 preventing premature death of skilled workers (loss to the society). 
 avoiding needless pain and suffering to the employees and their families. 
As for the workers, it enable workers to: 
 recognize unsafe practices  and conditions. It requires following of safety, health 
and environment procedures. 
 get to know all about the conditions that promote health, safety and environment at 
the workplace. 
 be willingness to take time to prevent accident. 
 have the right attitude about health, safety and environment, both for their own and 
their co-worker’s. 
 prevent injury, illness and accidental damage to company property. 
 increased workers morale, satisfaction and motivation 
 improved alertness and concentration among workers 
 
2.0 Planning Awareness Programmes 
There are standards that require program activities to be identified and made to tailor the 
different needs of various levels or functions in the organisation, and for those whose work 
may lead to a significant effect to safety and health and also impact on the environment, to 
receive appropriate information regarding hazards, risks and its control measures . These 
require workers at all levels to be made aware of: 
 importance of maintaining compliance with the safety, health and environmental 
policy and objectives, and the requirements of the management system established 
under standards;  
 how their roles and responsibilities can help to achieve and maintain complian ce the 
potential safety, health and environmental aspects of their work activities;  
 workplace and environmental benefits of improved performance; and 
 cost benefits of measures to improve workplace and environmental performance. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  4 
Drpd / of:  17 
Good planning is f undamental to the success of a HSE awareness programme. The main 
points to consider are: 
i) Support and resources  
The overall success of the initiative depends on the cooperation, acceptance and 
involvement of everyone  in the organizations. Early and ongoing  support from senior 
management is key to the success of the programme. Support from top and senior 
management is critical and should be visible to all staff in the organisation. 
Communication from senior management promoting  the program is one way of 
demonstrating commitment. 
An ‘energy team’ to help run the initiative which includes representatives from all parts 
of the organisation can be set up as resources . Team should include representatives 
from groups such as: 
 management (if organizations is a large facility, include a senior executive,  
department  head or a supervisor) 
 union representatives or job steward (if organization is unionized) 
 engineering or operations 
 accounting or finance 
 cleaning, housekeeping and maintenance 
 personnel from public relations, marketing or special events planning 
 human resources 
As team members are chosen from various a reas and functions within organization, 
identifying roles and assigning tasks will come naturally.  A good system  in place, 
which include internal mail, intranets or standard communication from human 
resources can be utilised to disseminate information within the organisation.  
Budget is also a major requirement and need to be proper plan and realistic, required 
for producing and distributing promo tional materials, and for incentives such as 
competition prizes. Find a way t o keep costs down  by using internal resources and 
supporting material . Other than that, sufficient time to carry out the programme 
effectively must be allowed.  
 
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  5 
Drpd / of:  17 
ii) Know current situation 
To select or decide any HSE awareness programme to be conducted, designated team 
or personnel must be assessed: 
 current HSE situation at the workplace  in terms of compliance to law and 
procedures; accident, dangerous occurrence and health illness statistics; 
 current awareness level among workers regarding issues related to HSE at 
workplace; and 
 Categories of workers which the HSE issues has been determined and identified 
as a problem. 
Using input from workers to design the program is important for several reasons. First, 
it ensures that the program’s content, themes, activities, and communication channels 
are valid and appropriate for the target audience . The second reason to involve 
workers is that more invol vement up front will encourage buy -in and participation as 
the program gets underway.  
 
iii) Target audience profile and goals 
It is important to confi rm who the target audience is for intended program because 
message and delivery mechanisms will differ according to intended audience. Clearly 
defining audiences will allow development of effective messages, activities and plans 
that will address the needs of each group. Through  the survey and interview 
conducted, primary audience who represents the people most target for the awareness 
programme can be determined, most likely they includes the workers. Secondary 
audiences are groups who may have an interest, although they are not directly 
affected. They include suppliers,  customers, contractors and visitors. Some may be 
willing to adjust their behaviour in order to support organizations’ vision.  
Determination of awareness programme topics and agenda can be established from 
gathered information derived from organizations’ workplace HSE performance and 
legislation compliance report and statistics. Current trends of workplace accidents and 
dangerous occurrences, and reported health illnesses can be used in determining 
types of awareness programme that can be prioritized. Other than that, input gathered 
from target audience as below can be used as outlining the awareness programme: 
 Topics they already know. 
 Areas where they might need extra instruction. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  6 
Drpd / of:  17 
 suitability and efficiency of previous training, whether it worked or not  
Understanding of audience behaviour and acceptance is very important in determining 
the awareness programme topics. For that, following principles of learning can be 
applied: 
a) People learn best when they are ready to learn. Therefore, time spent motivating 
employees so that they want to learn about safety, health and environment is time 
well spent. The reason for workers to learn and how they will benefit personally 
from having done so need to be explained. 
b) People learn more easily when what they are learnin g can be related to 
something they already know.  
c) People learn best in step by step manner.  Learning should be organized into 
logically sequence steps that proceed from the concrete to the abstract, from 
simple to complex, and from known to unknown. 
d) People learn by doing.  Explanation can be part of the teaching process but are 
only useful if they are followed by application activities that require the learner to 
demonstrate or do something. 
e) The more often people use what they are learning, the more they wil l remember 
and understand it. 
 
iv. Communication plan 
Communication is vital in ensuring successful of intended awareness programme. 
There are many resources that can be considered to support and enhance 
communication efforts. Right language for the target audience must be used .  Keep it 
simple and appropriate, easy to understand and remember, consistent and relevant, 
focused on one idea and repeated frequently.  
Select the right communication channels. Once target audience and the appropriate 
messages ident ified, way to convey them can be work out. Use an assortment of 
methods as people respond differently to each medium. Some will respond to pictorial 
messages, others to written messages and others will listen to verbal 
communications. There are a number of  routes to choose from depending on your 
audience and the particular message. Select communications tools that will deliver 
message in the most effective way. Following suggestions can be consider: 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  7 
Drpd / of:  17 
 printed materials such as newsletters, memos, pamphlet/brochures, bulletins, 
posters, press releases 
 internet-based products such as  e -newsletter, email, blog, social medias such 
as Face book and Twitter 
o public channels such as  displays and booths, committees, bulletin boards 
o promotional items such as T-shirts, stickers, hats 
 
v. Recognize and reward 
Activities such as competitions, challenges and contests combined with awards 
programs can encourage and motivate staff to participate in your program. Awards  
programs help build momentum, generate interest and motivate behavioural change. 
Awards can be given as prizes for contests, incentive for participating in activities or to 
recognize significant contributions . Support from local sponsors can be solicited to 
obtain awards. Awards can range from small items. 
 
3.0 Implement and Monitoring an Awareness Programmes 
Detailed schedule for the timing and delivery  of an awareness programmes must be 
developed. Timing is important. Build interest by putting on a day or week long event or by 
organizing numerous  activities over the course of a year. The longer the awareness 
programme runs, the better embedded the message will become in people’s minds.  
3.1 Awareness Programme Activities 
It is a good idea to explain the implications for the organisation if procedures are not 
followed. Education, including formal education, public awareness and training should be 
recognized as a process by which human beings and societies can reach their ful lest 
potential. Awareness program to workers including management staffs should be regular 
and ongoing and not a one -off event. It should be a part of the mainstream daily 
management of business and should include staff at all levels, including senior 
management.  
(i) Workers training 
An effective training program can reduce the number of injuries and deaths, property 
damage, legal liability, illnesses, workers' compensation claims, and missed time from 
work. It also helps establish a safety culture in which em ployees themselves help 
promote proper safety procedures while on the job. It is important that new employees 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  8 
Drpd / of:  17 
be properly trained and embraces the importance of safe and healthy workplace, as it 
is easy for seasoned workers to negatively influence the new hires.  
(a) Workers’ initial awareness training 
Health, safety and environment education should start with employee orientation 
when an employee joins the organization or is transferred to a new job. Orientation 
sessions normally cover such items as explanation of the function of the work unit, 
organizational relationships, administrative arrangements, and miscellaneous 
policies and rules. 
During this first training session, worker s will be equipped with basic 
awareness knowledge that:  
 introduces the organisation’s safety, health and environmental policy  
 explain why safety, health and environmental management is being 
adopted; 
 highlights the organisation’s commitment to safety, health and 
environmental management and improvement; 
 described what the organisation’s hope to achieve form implementing 
a good safety, health and environmental management system; 
 discuss the safety, health and environmental impacts of their activities; 
 explain any new or modified procedures related to work; and 
 Explain how it relates to individual worker (e.g. working at heights, 
handling chemicals at laboratory, taking measurements, recording 
waste arising, and segregating wastes, sweeping up solid waste and 
switching off hoses when not in use). 
 
(b) Workers’ refresher/normal training 
Workers should receive training to make them aware of their own responsibilities 
relating to safety, health and environmental protection. Individuals who are 
expected to manage particular elements of a safety, health and environmenta l 
management system and explain them to others need a greater level of training.  
 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
9 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  9 
Drpd / of:  17 
This could include: 
 more detailed information about specific elements of the safety, health and 
environmental management system and other concerns related to specific 
safety, health and environmental issues; 
 an introduction to the safety, health and environmental legislation governing 
the issues they are required to manage; 
 An introduction to safety, health and environmental management system 
documentation and procedures.  
 Understand the potential consequences of not following safety, health and 
environmental management system requirements (such as spill, releases, 
fines or other penalties). 
(ii) Contractors’ awareness program 
Contractors and suppliers form part of organisati on’s safety, health and environmental 
management system, make them aware of their relationship to the management 
system. Depending on their duties on workplace, a higher degree of awareness may 
be necessary through specific contractor training. During the contractor awareness 
program, activities such as below can be including:  
 issuance of a copy of the safety, health and environmental policy;  
 short introduction to workers on safe working procedures and requirements; and  
 Presentation highlighting the environmental issues related to workplace. 
To prove that contractors have received the correct training, an acknowledgement form 
stated that they have received the information (as they do after a health and safety 
briefing) must be signed , for example attendance list . This can help organisation in 
seeking external certification/registration.  
 
(iii) Awareness Campaign  
A safety, health and environment awareness campaign could be carried out to enforce 
the idea of safe, healthy and environment fr iendly as a way of life for all major 
stakeholders including employers, workers and safety representative. A campaign 
could be carried out by way of using mass communication such as using posters, 
banners and incentives for having a safe work place or zero incidents incentives.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
10 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  10 
Drpd / of:  17 
The main objective of the campaign is to drill into the mind of stakeholders that 
‘Safety, Health and Environment Comes First’ above all others, even bottom lines of 
the organization. Top management must take the initiative to reali ze this vision and it 
is immortalized in the organization’s Safety Policy. 
 
Objective of conducting awareness campaign is to promote broad awareness to 
strengthen attitudes, values and actions of the workers that are compatible with 
sustainable development . A successful safety, health and environmental behaviour 
change programme can: 
 improve stakeholder communication and involvement in establishing a conducive 
workplace environment;  
 improve workers morale, motivation and retention rates;  
 compliance with related legislation;  
 increase competiveness;  
 improve protection  from increasing resource scarcity (energy or raw materials) and 
rising costs;  
 reduce operational costs (lower waste, energy and transport costs);  
 increase profitability and enhance business reputation; and 
 Attainment of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) goals.  
It is also good to get an involvement of the respective Go vernment agencies that involved 
with the enforcement of the environment legislation.  
 
4.0 Awareness Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
Awareness program evaluation is a systematic method for collecting, analyzing, and using 
information to answer questions about programs, particularly about their effectiveness and 
efficiency. In both the public and private sectors, stakeholders often want to know whether 
the programs they are funding, implementing , voting for, receiving or objecting to be 
producing the intended effect, Evaluation of awareness programmers is: 
 To gain information on how to improve future awareness programs. 
 to justify the existence and budget of the training department by showing how it 
contributes to the organization’s objectives and goals; and 
 To decide whether to continue or discontinue training programs. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
11 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  11 
Drpd / of:  17 
Following is the kinds of assessment, which may be appropriate at these different stages: 
i) assessment of the need for the program 
ii) assessment of program design  
iii) assessment of how the program is being implemented  
iv) assessment of the program's outcome or impact  
v) assessment of the program's cost and efficiency 
The methods used for each type of evaluation will vary. Both qu alitative and quanti tative 
methods can be used within the design of an evaluation 
 
i) Assessing needs 
A needs assessment examines the population that the program intends to target, to see 
whether the need as conceptualized in the program actually exists in the population; 
whether it is, in fact, a problem; and if so, how it might best be dealt with. This includes 
identifying and diagnosing the actual problem the program is trying to address, who or 
what is affected by the problem, how widespread the problem is, and what are the 
measurable effects that are caused by the problem.  
Needs assessment involves t he processes or methods to describe and diagnose social 
needs. Needs assessment involves research and regular consultation with community 
stakeholders and with the people that will benefit from the programmed before the 
programmed can be developed and impl emented. In this way potential problems can be 
realized early because the process would have involved the community in identifying the 
need and thereby allowed the opportunity to identify potential barriers. 
There are four steps in conducting a needs assessment: 
1. Perform a ‘gap’ analyses. 
Evaluators need to compare current situation to the desired or necessary situation. 
The difference or the gap between the two situations will help identify the need, 
purpose and aims of the program. 
2. Identify priorities and importance. 
Evaluators would have identified a number of interventions that could potentially 
address the need e.g. training and development, organization development etc. 
These must now be examined in view of their significance to the program’s goals and 
constraints. This must be done by considering the following factors:  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
12 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  12 
Drpd / of:  17 
 cost effectiveness (consider the budget of the progr am, assess cost/benefit 
ratio); 
 executive pressure (whether top management expects a solution); and  
 Population (whether many key people are involved).   
3. Identify causes of performance problems and/or opportunities and to also assess the 
skills of the people that will be carrying out the interventions. 
4. Identify possible solutions and growth opportunities Compare the consequences of 
the interventions if it was to be implemented or not. 
Needs analysis is hence a very crucial step in evaluating programs because the 
effectiveness of a program cannot be assessed unless we know what the problem was in 
the first place. 
 
ii) Assessing programmed theory 
The programmed theory, also called a logic model or impact pathway, is an assumption, 
implicit in the way the programmed is designed, about how the programmer’s actions are 
supposed to achieve the outcomes it intends. This 'logic model' is often not stated 
explicitly by people who run programs, it is simply assumed, and so an evaluator will need 
to draw out from the program staff how exactly the program is suppos ed to achieve its 
aims and assess whether this logic is plausible.  
This is why it is important to read research that has been done in the area. Explicating this 
logic can also reveal unintended or unforeseen consequences of a program, both positive 
and ne gative. The program theory drives the hypotheses to test for impact evaluation. 
Developing a logic model can also build common understanding amongst program staff 
and stakeholders about what the program is actually supposed to do and how it is 
supposed to do it, which is often lacking . Of course, it is also possible that during the 
process of trying to elicit the logic model behind a program the evaluators may discover 
that such a model is either incompletely developed, internally contradictory, or (in wors t 
cases) essentially non -existent. This decidedly limits the effectiveness of the evaluation, 
although it does not necessarily reduce or eliminate the program. 
Creating a logic model is a wonderful way to help visualize important aspects of programs, 
especially when preparing for an evaluation. An evaluator should create a logic model with 
input from many different stake holders. Logic Models have 5 major components: 
Resources or Inputs, Activities, Outputs, Short -term outcomes, and Long -term outcomes. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  13 
Drpd / of:  17 
Creating a logic model helps articulate the problem, the resources and capacity that are 
currently being used to address the problem, and the measurable outcomes from the 
program. Looking at the different components of a program in relation to the overall short -
term and long -term goals allows for illumination of potential misalignments. Creating an 
actual logic model is particularly important because it helps clarify for all stakeholders: the 
definition of the problem, the overarching goals, and the capacity and  outputs of the 
program. Suggested four approaches and procedures that can be used to assess the 
program theory are as below: 
1. Assessment in relation to social needs. 
This entails assessing the program theory by relating it to the needs of the target 
population the program is intended to serve. If the program theory fails to address 
the needs of the target population it will be rendered ineffective even when if it is well 
implemented. 
2. Assessment of logic and plausibility. 
This form of assessment involves ask ing a panel of expert reviewers to critically 
review the logic and plausibility of the assumptions and expectations inherent in the 
program's design. The review process is unstructured and open ended so as to 
address certain issues on the program design. Questions listed below is suggested 
to assist with the review process: 
Are the program goals and objectives well defined? 
Are the program goals and objectives feasible? 
Is the change process presumed in the program theory feasible? 
Are the procedures for identifying members of the target population, delivering 
service to them, and sustaining that service through completion well defined and 
sufficient? 
Are the constituent components, activities, and functions of the program well 
defined and sufficient? 
Are the resources allocated to the program and its various activities adequate? 
3. Assessment through comparison with research and practice. 
This form of assessment requires gaining information from research literature and 
existing practices to assess various com ponents of the program theory. The 
evaluator can assess whether the program theory is congruent with research 
evidence and practical experiences of programs with similar concepts. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  14 
Drpd / of:  17 
4. Assessment via preliminary observation. 
This approach involves incorporatin g firsthand observations into the assessment 
process as it provides a reality check on the concordance between the program 
theory and the program itself. The observations can focus on the attainability of the 
outcomes, circumstances of the target populatio n, and the plausibility of the program 
activities and the supporting resources. 
These different forms of assessment of program theory can be conducted to ensure that 
the program theory is sound. 
 
iii) Assessing implementation 
Process analysis looks beyond the t heory of what the program is supposed to do and 
instead evaluates how the program is being implemented. This evaluation determines 
whether the components identified as critical to the success of the program are being 
implemented. The evaluation determines whether target populations are being reached, 
people are receiving the intended services, staff are adequately qualified. Process 
evaluation is an ongoing process in which repeated measures may be used to evaluate 
whether the program is being implemented e ffectively. This problem is particularly critical 
because many innovations, particularly in areas like education and public policy, consist of 
fairly complex chains of action. Many of which these elements rely on the prior correct 
implementation of other e lements, and will fail if the prior implementation was not done 
correctly. Since incorrect or ineffective implementation will produce the same kind of 
neutral or negative results that would be produced by correct implementation of a poor 
innovation, it is essential that evaluation research assess the implementation process 
itself. Otherwise, a good innovative idea may be mistakenly characterized as ineffective, 
where in fact it simply had never been implemented as designed. 
 
iv) Assessing the impact (effectiveness) 
The impact evaluation determines the causal effects of the program. This involves trying to 
measure if the program has achieved its intended outcomes, i.e. program outcomes. 
a) Program Outcomes 
An outcome is the state of the target population or the social conditions that a 
program is expected to have changed . Program outcomes are the observed 
characteristics of the target population or social conditions, not of the program. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
15 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  15 
Drpd / of:  17 
Thus the concept of an outcome does not necessarily mean that the prog ram 
targets have actually changed or that the program has caused them to change in 
any way . There are two kinds of outcomes, namely outcome level and outcome 
change, also associated with program effect. 
• Outcome level refers to the status of an outcome at some point in time. 
• Outcome change refers to the difference between outcome levels at different 
points in time. 
• Program effect  refers to that portion of an outcome change that can be 
attributed uniquely to a program a s opposed to the influence of some other 
factor. 
b) Measuring Program Outcomes 
Outcome measurement is a matter of representing the circumstances defined as 
the outcome by means of observable indicators that vary systematically with 
changes or differences in t hose circumstances. Outcome measurement is a 
systematic way to assess the extent to which a program has achieved its intended 
outcomes. Measuring the impact of a program means demonstrating or estimating 
the accumulated differentiated proximate and emergen t effect, some of which 
might be unintended and therefore unforeseen. 
Outcome measurement serves to help you understand whether the program is 
effective or not. It further helps you to clarify your understanding of your program. 
But the most important reason for undertaking the effort is to understand the 
impacts of your work on the people you serve. With the information you collect, 
you can determine which activities to continue and build upon, and which you need 
to change in order to improve the effectiveness of the program. 
This can involve using sophisticated statistical techniques in order to measure the 
effect of the program and to find causal relationship between the program and the 
various outcomes.  
 
v) Assessing efficiency 
Finally, cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis assesses the efficiency of a program. 
Evaluators outline the benefits and cost of the program for comparison. An efficient 
program has a lower cost-benefit ratio. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
16 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  16 
Drpd / of:  17 
Once an evaluation is complete it is important to pr ovide feedba ck to the stakehold ers 
involved in the programme. Dissemination of the results will help garner further support for 
the programme if it is successful, and help others gain support for the introduction of 
similar programmes. Publicity from dissemination act ivities may also increase the impact 
of the programme. If the  programme has not been success ful it is important to share this 
with others so that weaknesses or relevant issues are considered in other similar 
interventions, including whether or not to introduce such interventions.  Dissemination may 
involve presenting the results at public meetings, using the media to publicise the 
outcomes of the programme, or publishing reports and papers in the scientific literature. 
Implementation of any r equirements, tasks or outcome from the awareness programs 
activities should be monitored and assessed. Administrative data can be used to evaluate 
and monitor awareness program activities successes, such as: 
 rate of absenteeism among workers 
 workplace accident/incident rates and health illnesses reports 
 return to work rate from injuries or illnesses 
 number of workers promotions/year 
 rate of organizations’ turnover 
 cost of group insurance (prescription drugs, dental, etc.) 
 number of events or activities held last year 
 changing behavior or attitudes towards more healthy habits 
 
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
17 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M02/P(1/3) Muka Surat / Page :  17 
Drpd / of:  17 
SOALAN/QUESTION : 
 
1. What is the significant of establishing a well-planned HSE awareness program for all 
workers? 
  
2. Name 5 main points to consider when planning an awareness programme.  
 
3. How collections of information required as the parameters of selecting suitable 
awareness programme can be gathered? 
 
4. What programme  evaluation method can  be conducted during a program 's 
lifetime? 
  
5. Why evaluations of the environmental awareness program need to be done?  
 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCES: 
 
1. http://www.http://www.ask.com/science/environmental-awareness-important 
2. http://www.yourarticlelibrary.com/essay/need-for-environmental-awareness 
3. environmental education – UNESCO 2006 
4. www.hotelier.org 
5. WRAP – Your Guide To Environmental Management Systems 
6. Ways to Increase Public Awareness About Environmental Problems – Brian Quick, 
Demand Media 
7. Creating Awareness Campaign – Carbon Trust 
 
 