 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA04 ETIQUETTE PRACTICES 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
 
04.01 ADHERE TO CODES OF ETHICAL DISCIPLINE 
04.02 COMPLY CULTURAL AWARENESS 
04.03 ADHERE TO METICULOUS PERFORMANCE 
04.04 ADHERE TO RESULT ORIENTED PRACTICES 
04.05 ADHERE PROTOCOL REQUIREMENT 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   8 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : CODES OF ETHICAL DISCIPLINE 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
 
The purpose of this Information Sheet is to describes the ethical discipline codes to 
ensure good behaviour at the work place.  The person who is competent in ethical 
discipline shall be able to enhanced the company reputations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
2 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  2 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION :  
     
1. Principles Of Ethical Discipline 
 
1.1 Decision making 
 
i) Ethical decision -making refers to the process of evaluating and choosing 
among alternatives in  a manner consistent with ethical principles. In 
making ethical decisions, it is necessary to perceive and eliminate 
unethical options and select the best ethical alternative. 
ii) The process of making ethical decisions requires 
a) Commitment: The desire to do the right thing regardless of the cost 
b) Consciousness: The awareness to act consistently and apply moral 
convictions to daily behavior 
c) Competency: The ability to collect and evaluate information, develop 
alternatives, and forsee potential consequences and risks. 
 
1.2 Good decisions are both ethical and effective 
 
i) Ethical decisions  generate and sustain trust; demonstrate respect,  
responsibility, fairness and caring; and are consistent with good citizenship. 
These behaviors provide a foundation for making better decisions by 
setting the ground rules for our behavior. 
ii) Effective decisions  are effective if they accomplish what we want 
accomplished and if they advance our purposes. A choice that produces 
unintended and undesirable results is ineffective. The key to ma king 
effective decisions is to think about choices in terms of their ability to 
accomplish our most important goals. This means we have to understand 
the difference between immediate and short -term goals and longer -range 
goals. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
3 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  3 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
2. Appearance 
 
2.1 Appearance deals with every aspect of how we perceive an individual.  In 
an instant, we form opinions about a person based on that individual’s appearance, 
smell, cleanliness, and mannerisms.  Those brief seconds define how we treat 
others or are treated b y others.  Likewise, our appearance is a direct reflection of 
the environment in which we were raised (i.e. a reflection upon our parents and 
families).  Through our actions and appearance, others may form a lasting, and 
sometimes detrimental, impression of us that we may never overcome.   
 
2.2 Depending on the career field, acceptable appearances may vary. 
However, regardless of the job, there is no excuse for not being groomed, being 
neat, practicing good personal hygiene, or using correct and polite behavior .  A lack 
of attention on the part in any of these areas can affect the job and/or the business. 
 
2.3  A person who is groomed and neat in appearance has cleaned and 
combed hair that is styled appropriately for the job or class. Clothes are pressed, 
shirttails tucked in, shoelaces tied, and so on.  Stockings are run -free, and shoe 
heels are appropriate for the job or class.  Make -up and cologne are tastefully 
applied without being overbearing.  Nails are clean and manicured and are an 
appropriate length for the classroom or lab. 
 
2.4 The practice of good personal hygiene is a must.  Daily bathing, especially 
in our region of the country, is a necessity.  Body perspiration causes odors that 
can be very offensive to others. The heat and humidity we experience in the S outh 
compounds this problem.  The use of a deodorant and antiperspirant is only 
effective as long as the body is clean and free of dirt and sweat. Likewise, good oral 
hygiene and brushing and flossing daily aid in the prevention of bad brea th, 
cavities, and gum disease. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
4 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  4 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
3. Communication 
 
3.1 Communication occurs when a sender expresses an emotion or a feeling, 
creates an idea, or senses the need to communicate.  The communication process 
is triggered when the sender makes a conscious or an unconscious decision to 
share the message with another person—the receiver. 
 
3.2 Every communicative act is based on something that conveys meaning, 
and that conveyance is the message.  The message may be either verbal (spoken 
or written) or nonverbal (body language, physical appearance, or vocal tone).  
Messages may also come from the  context—or place and time —of the 
communication. 
 
3.3 Every message is sent and received through one of our five senses —it is 
seen, heard, touched, tasted, or smelled.  The sensory media through which 
messages are sent and received are communication channe ls.  In a work setting, 
messages may be seen through body movement, letters, memos, newsletters, 
bulletin board notices, signs, emails, and so on.  Messages that are heard come 
through conversations, interviews, presentations, telephones, radios, and other  
audio media.  Sight and sound are the two most frequent communication channels 
used in our society.   
 
3.4 When the receiver gets the message (through seeing, hearing, feeling, 
touching, or smelling), he or she will usually give feedback (return message) 
unconsciously or consciously.  Thus, the communications process is on-going. 
 
3.5  The worst assumption a sender of a message can make is that the 
message will be received as intended.  So many things can go wrong during the 
communications process that we should always assume that something will go 
wrong and take steps to prevent that occurrence.  Barriers to good communications 
are always present.  For instance, the language itself can be a barrier —unclear 
wording, slang, jargon, the tone.   
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
5 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  5 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
3.6 Another barrier is the failure of the sender to realize that his or her body 
language might contradict the spoken message.  The channel used to convey the 
message might be wrong.  For instance, you would not use the telephone to relay a 
lot of statistical informa tion; you would need to write that message on paper.  Poor 
listening skills can constitute a barrier also.   
 
 
4. Behaviour 
 
4.1 Correct and polite behavior is the acceptable conduct for class or a job.  It 
shows respect for oneself as well as others. Acceptable behavior may include: 
i) Not interrupting others while they are talking; 
ii) Not carrying on side conversations while someone is talking; 
iii) Considering other’s feelings and concerns when making decisions or 
comments; 
iv) Being respectful of the instructor and classmates; 
v) Avoiding arguments and disagreements; 
vi) Providing assistance when asked; 
vii) Using terms such as “please” and “thank you.” 
 
 
5.   Ethical Behaviour 
 
5.1 Acting in ways  consistent with what society and  individuals typically think 
are good  values. Ethical behavior tends to be good for  business and involves 
demonstrating respect for key  moral principles that include honesty, fairness, 
equality, dignity, diversity and individual rights. 
5.2 Ethical business practices include assuring that the highest legal and moral 
standards are observed in the relationships with the people in the business 
community. Short term profit at the cost of losing a customer is long term death for 
the business. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
6 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  6 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
5.3 A reputation for ethical decisions builds trust in the business 
among business associates and suppliers.  Strong supplier relationships ar e critical 
to a successful business. Consider the problems might have if we could not supply 
what the customer needs at the time that they need it. 
5.4 The entrepreneur is the role model for  employees. If the behavior includes 
lying to customers, taking mo ney out of the cash register, or taking home some of 
the inventory or supplies, we are cannot be surprised if the employees follow the 
lead. The family members may see the business as their own and take things that 
really belong to the business. Employees may see this as being dishonest, or as a 
conflict with their needs for a raise in pay. 
5.5 Ethical behavior is merely making  good business decisions  based on an 
established "code of ethics". Entrepreneurs should establish a written code of ethics 
that can serve as a framework for decisions to be made by the entrepreneur as well 
as the employees. In developing this code of ethics you should consider the 
following items: 
i) Identify the general principles that would lead to fair business 
practices. 
ii) Check with the industry association for basic standards to review 
iii) Allow for the fact that ethical questions do not always have a unique, 
faultless answer. 
iv) Write out specific statements that will assist you and others in making 
day-to-day ethical decisions. 
v) Apply the code of ethics to a written policy and procedure manual 
identifying the major rules for operating the business. 
vi) Train the employees (and family members) to make ethical decisions 
about the business. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
7 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  7 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
5.6 The code of ethics will apply to all types of business operations including the  
followings: 
i) Handling cash and checks from customers 
ii) "Negotiating" special prices for a friend without permission 
iii) Accepting gifts from suppliers and business associates 
iv) Selling damaged merchandise 
v) Warranties on products 
vi) Merchandise return policies for customers 
vii) Returning merchandise to suppliers 
viii) Handling shoplifters 
ix) Accounting procedures for cash sales 
x) Employee theft 
xi) Insurance coverage adequate to protect the business and employees 
xii) Supporting the advertising promises 
xiii) Checking in merchandise when received from suppliers 
xiv) Keeping the premises clean and free from harmful substances or 
germs. 
xv) Handling employee performance problems 
xvi) Telling customers the truth  
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
8 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(1/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  8 
Drpd/ of :  8 
 
 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
 
1. What is the definition of ethical decision-making? 
 
2. What are the ruquirements needed to the process of making ethical decisions? 
 
3. What are the the code of ethics that need to be  considered in serving  as a 
framework for decisions purpose? 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. http://blink.ucsd.edu/finance/accountability/ethics/process.html  
Making Ethical Decisions: Process 28 July 2015, 9.24pm 
2. http://www.tcls.org.au/01_cms/details.asp?ID=71 
Community Workers And The Law 28 July 2015, 10.40pm 
3. http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/ethical-behavior.html#ixzz3hX80i8Kr 
1 August 2015 12.13pm 
4. http://www.entre-ed.org/_teach/ethics.htm 
1 August 2015, 01.00pm  