 
1 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE 
AND NAME 
 Z-009-4: 2015  CORE ABILITIES 
 
TAHAP / LEVEL 
 
4 (FOUR) 
NO.  DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. 
AND TITLE 
CA01  ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR  
           AWARENESS 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN  /  
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
01.01 ADHERE TO CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF THE 
ORGANIZATION 
01.02 ENHANCE SUCCESSFUL TEAMWORK.  
01.03 DEMONSTRATE WORK DELEGATION CAPABILITY. 
01.04 ENSURE SYSTEMATIC DOCUMENTATION. 
01.05 ENCOURAGE ORGANIZATION EVENT 
COORDINATION.  
01.06 COMPLY WITH TRAINING REQUIREMENT 
PROCEDURES. 
01.07 RECOGNIZE STAFF VERTICAL MOBILITY 
POTENTIAL. 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015 M01/P(3/7) Muka Surat / Page :  1 
Drpd / of                 :  19 
 
 
 
TAJUK / TITLE:  WORK DELEGATION  
 
TUJUAN / OBJECTIVE: 
 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe on the organisational behaviour awareness 
within organization and its related regulatory affecting the practice . The person who is 
competent in the Organisational Behaviour Awareness  shall be  able to adhere to the 
conceptual framework of an organi sation, enhance teamwork, demonstrate work delegation 
capability, ensure systematic documentation, encourage organization event coordination, 
comply with training requirement procedures, recognize staff vertical mobility potential.  
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
(INFORMATION SHEET) 
 


----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     2      
Drpd / Of :   19 
2 
 
 
PENERANGAN / INFORMATION: 
 
1.  DEFINING DELEGATION  
Delegation is not a task assignment. You're not simply assigning work to employees that falls 
within their job duties and responsibilities. To delegate, you must give someone the 
responsibility and authority to do something that's normally part of your job.  
Delegation is not "dumping." If employees think you're merely throwing unpleasant 
assignments on their lap, they'll resent having to find extra time for boring or dead -end 
projects.  
Delegation is not abdication. You share  accountability for the assignment. That's why you 
must establish appropriate controls and checkpoints to monitor your employees' progress.  
Your role is to set clear goals and expectations for the assignment — including any 
boundaries or criteria — without telling the worker how to do it. This way, you allow others to 
discover for themselves the best way to follow through.  
Delegation involves three elements:  
- responsibility  
- authority  
- accountability  
When you delegate, you distribute responsibility and a uthority to others while holding them 
accountable for their performance. The ultimate accountability, however, still lies with you.  
 
2. LEARNING TO DELEGATE 
 
‘The most difficult thing in the world is to know how to do a thing and to watch somebody else 
doing it wrong, without comment.’ – TH White 
‘It is never a sign of weakness when a man in a high position delegates authority; on the 
contrary, it is sign of his strength and of his capacity to deserve success.’ – Walter Lippman 
Most people vow that when th ey become a manager they will become good delegators. 
However, when they reach the giddy heights of management they too often fail to carry out 
the promise. Why is that so many managers are reluctant to delegate even the simplest of 
task? With few exceptio ns, the reason is purely psychological, as illustrated by the following 
list: 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     3      
Drpd / Of :   19 
3 
 
- Assumed lack of ability of subordinates – until you make yourself aware of strengths 
and weakness of your staff, it is natural to assume that they lack the necessary skills. 
- ‘It’s quicker to do it myself” - in the short term, yes, but not in the long term. If a task 
takes you in one hour each week, you could save yourself 45 to 50 hours a year by 
delegating it to someone else. 
- The manager enjoys the task – until his recent retirement, the chairman and founder 
of a haulage company in the south east of England always prepared the holiday 
schedule for his 230 employees. Despites the attempts of his fellow directors, she 
could not be persuaded to delegate this comparatively simple task. He enjoys doing it. 
- The manager has always done it – why? Is not to know the time for a change? 
- Reluctance to share knowledge – after all, knowledge is power 
- Ego – The manager comes to be considered to be martyr and to be seen to be 
overworked 
- Fear – Fear that the person who takes on the task may do it better than the manager; 
fear that the staff may feel that is too demeaning for them. Fear to unknown 
- Over protective of staff – not wishing to appear to be overloading the staff with work. 
- Politics – The top management would not approve 
- Lack of communications skills – not knowing how to delegate 
 
Delegation involves passing responsibility for completion of work to other people. This 
section examines the reasons you should delegate, how to delegate, failure to delegate and 
what should not be delegated.  
 
3. UNDERSTANDING WHY DELEGATION IS IMPORTANT 
 
Good delegation will give many benefits to you as the manager and to your staff. Good 
delegation will provide: 
 
- More time in which to manage 
- Valuable development for staff 
- A mean of motivating staff 
- More staff job satisfaction 
- A Sense of responsibilities for staff 
- A good working environment 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     4      
Drpd / Of :   19 
4 
 
- More staff involvement 
 
3.1  Delegation is useful for the following reasons:  
i) Once people have learned how to work with you, they can take 
responsibility for jobs you do not have time to do. 
ii) You can develop people to look after routine tasks that are not cost-
effective for you to carry out  
iii) It transfers work to people whose skills in a particular area are better 
than yours, saving time.  
iv) Transfer of responsibility develops your staff, and can increase their 
enjoyment of their jobs  
 
4. KNOWING HOW TO DELEGATE 
 
Good delegation will be highly motivating to all concerned, while poor delegation will be very 
demotivating. To delegate effectively, follow this sequence of simple steps: 
 
- Decide the task to be delegated. Preferably it should be a continuing task, not a ‘one-
off’. 
- Select the most appropriate member of your staff to delegate to. This will largely 
depend upon the task. 
- Check the existing workload of that staff member. You will not be thank if  they think 
that you are dumping extra work on them. It may be necessary to delegate some of 
their work to somebody else. 
- Discuss your proposals with the person you have selected. Explain the task, its 
importance and why you have chosen them. Get their agreement to take on the job. 
- Train the person until you are both happy that they can do the task 
- Establish and agree a monitoring procedure 
- Assign the necessary authority and responsibility with the task. 
- The amount of delegation by a manager should be a balance between dictatorship 
and abdication 
- Accountability should always go with responsibility 
- Let go the reins when the time is right 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     5      
Drpd / Of :   19 
5 
 
 
4.1 The following points may help you in delegating jobs:  
i) Deciding what to delegate 
One way of deciding what to delegate is simply to list the things that you 
do which could be more effectively done by someone either more skilled 
in a particular area, or less expensive. Alternatively you may decide to 
use your activity log as the basis of your decision to delegate: this will 
show you where you are spending large amounts of time on low yield 
jobs.  
ii) Select capable, willing people to carry out jobs:  
How far you can delegate jobs will depend on the ability, experience and 
reliability of your assistants. Good people will be able to carry out large 
jobs with no intervention from you. Inexperienced or unreliable people 
will need close supervision to get a job done to the correct standard. 
However if you coach, encourage and give practice to them you may 
improve their ability to carry out larger and larger tasks unsupervised.  
  iii) Delegate complete jobs: 
It is much more satisfying to work on a single task than on many 
fragments of the task. If you delegate a complete task to a capable 
assistant, you are also more likely to receive a more elegant, tightly 
integrated solution.  
iv) Explain why the job is done, and what results are expected:  
When you delegate a job, explain how it fits into the overall picture of 
what you are trying to achieve. Ensure that you communicate effectively:  
 the results that are needed  
 the importance of the job  
 the constraints within which it should be carried out  
 the deadlines for completion  
 internal reporting dates when you want information on the 
progress of the project  
v) Then let go!  
Once you have decided to delegate a task, let your assistant get on with 
it. Review the project on the agreed reporting dates, but do not 
constantly look over their shoulders. Recognize that your assistants may 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     6      
Drpd / Of :   19 
6 
 
know a better way of doing something than you do. Accept that there 
may be different ways of achieving a particular task, and also that one of 
the best ways of really learning something is through making mistakes. 
Always accept mistakes that are not caused by idleness, and that are 
learned from.   
vi) Give help and coach when requested:  
It is important to support your subordinates when they are having 
difficulties, but do not do the job for them. If you do, then they will not 
develop the confidence to do the job themselves.  
vii)  Accept only finished work:  
You have delegated a task to take a work load off you. If you accept only 
partially completed jobs back, then you will have to invest time in 
completing them, and your assistant will not get the experience he or 
she needs in completing projects.   
 
4.2 Why do people fail to delegate? 
 
Despite the many advantages of delegation, some managers do not delegate.  
This can be for the following reasons:  
i) Lack of time:  
Delegating jobs does take time. In the early stages of taking over a job you 
may need to invest time in training people to take over tasks. Jobs may take 
longer to achieve with delegation than they do for you to do by yourself, 
when coaching and checking are taken into account. In time, with the right 
people, you will find that the time taken up reduces significantly as your 
coaching investment pays back.  
ii) Perfectionism - fear of mistakes:  
Just as you have to develop staff to do jobs quickly without your 
involvement, you will have to let people make mistakes, and help them to 
correct them. Most people will, with time, learn to do jobs properly.  
iii) Enjoying 'getting my hands dirty':  
By doing jobs yourself you will probably get them done effectively. If, 
however, your assistants are standing idle while you do this, then your 
department will be seriously inefficient. Bear in mind the cost of your time 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     7      
Drpd / Of :   19 
7 
 
and the cost of your department's time when you are tempted to do a job 
yourself.  
iv) Fear of surrendering authority:  
Whenever you delegate, you surrender some element of authority (but not 
of responsibility!) This is inevitable. By effective delegation, however, you 
get the benefits of adequate time to do YOUR job really well.  
v) Fear of becoming invisible:  
Where your department is running smoothly with all routine work effectively 
delegated, it may appear that you have nothing to do. Now you have the 
time to think and plan and improve operations (and plan your next career 
step!)  
vi) Belief that staff 'are not up to the job':  
Good people will often under-perform if they are bored. Delegation will often 
bring the best out of them. People who are not so good will not be effective 
unless you invest time in them. Even incompetent people can be effective, 
providing they find their level. The only people who cannot be reliably 
delegated to are those whose opinions of their own abilities are so inflated 
that they will not co-operate.  
It is common for people who are newly promoted to managerial positions to 
have difficulty delegating. Often they will have been promoted because they 
were good at what they were doing. This brings the temptation to continue 
trying to do their previous job, rather than developing their new 
subordinates to do the job well.  
 
4.3 What should not be delegated? 
 
While you should delegate as many tasks as possible that are not cost effective 
for you to carry out, ensure that you do not delegate the control of your team. 
Remember that you bear ultimate responsibility for the success or failure of 
what you are trying to achieve.  
Effective delegation involves achieving the correct balance between effective 
control of work and letting people get on with jobs in their own way 
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     8      
Drpd / Of :   19 
8 
 
 
5.   Deciding What To Delegate 
One of the problem facing managers when it comes to delegation is knowing what and what 
not to delegate. As a rule of thumb, you should able to delegate the following: 
 
- Project that expand the capabilities of the individual, e.g. preparation of statistical 
data, restructuring departmental workflows, recommendations for future activities. 
- Complete task with responsibilities. Giving only part of job will provide no sense of 
achievement. 
- Closed decision with clear cut criteria. 
 
  5.1 On the other hand, task that should not be delegate include: 
i) Management prerogatives and key tasks : e.g. salary review, 
departmental objectives, confidential or sensitive task. 
ii) Part task with no overall responsibility 
iii) Only boring, mundane, routine task 
 
5.2 The following are a list of tasks that could be delegated to staff 
i) The recruitment of a new member of staff 
ii) A project in an area in which you are particularly  competent 
iii) The preparation of forecast of budgets 
iv) Recommendations for future changes 
v) Employee disciplinary procedures 
vi) Routine work 
 
GOOD DELEGATION 
 
BAD DELEGATION 
 
Choose the appropriate person 
 
Giving additional tasks to already 
overworked staff 
 
 
Delegate complete task 
 
Delegating only part of a task 
 
 
Provide full training for the task 
 
Nil or inadequate training 
 
 Constantly checking up on progress 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     9      
Drpd / Of :   19 
9 
 
Ensure both you and the person 
 
 
 
Delegate are satisfied that they can do 
the job 
 
Ignoring the person after delegating 
the task 
 
Delegate task that will develop the 
person 
 
 
   Failing to give the authority or   
responsibility  
   that goes with the task 
 
 
Arrange to monitor progress 
 
- 
 
Delegate the authority and responsibility 
along with the tasks 
 
- 
 
Table.1: Good Delegation vs. Bad Delegation  
 
6.   THE PROCESS OF DELEGATION  
 
6.1 Step 1: Choose What to Delegate  
Study what kind of job you intend to delegate. Plan how you are going to present the 
assignment, including your requirements, parameters, authority level, checkpoints, 
and expectations.  
To determine what tasks you should delegate, begin by keeping a log of what you do 
during the day. After two weeks, review your daily activity log and ask yourself if it truly 
reflects what you should be doing.  
Say you make the most contribution to your firm by focusing on five duties:  
- Courting new customers  
- Mapping out your firm's growth strategy  
- Exploring acquisitions and marketing alliances  
- Analyzing new markets for your products or services  
- Coaching employees  
If your activity log shows you do not spend the bulk of your time in these five areas, 
this should spur you to delegate. Squandering your day on minor matters will divert 
you from what really counts and stymie your company's growth.  
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     10      
Drpd / Of :   19 
10 
 
 
i) Do delegate:  
- All routine or even sporadic clerical duties (filing, counting, sorting, 
routine reports)  
- Making minor decisions  
- Answering routine questions  
- Minor staffing problems such as scheduling  
- Anything your employees are expected to do when you're not there  
- Jobs that can develop the employee in other areas for potential  
  promotion  
ii) Don't delegate:  
- An emergency or short-term task where there's not time to explain or  
  train  
- Morale problems  
- A presentation to investors about your company's financial performance  
  and future plans 
- A job no one else in the company is qualified to do  
- Personnel issues such as hiring, firing or disciplinary matters  
 
6.2 Step 2: Choose the Right Person to Delegate to  
 
Andrew Carnegie once said, "The secret of success is not in doing your own work but 
in recognizing the right man to do it."  
The key to finding the right person to delegate to is to match skills and personality to 
the task at hand. As a preliminary exercise, ask each of your employees these 
questions:  
- What would you like to learn more about at this company?  
- What areas would you like to expand your skills?  
- What parts of this company do you feel you know the most/least about? 
- Are you eager to change your current job duties in any way? If so, how?  
Armed with the answers, you can delegate duties to people who are receptive to 
accepting them.  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     11      
Drpd / Of :   19 
11 
 
Also consider the work habits of individuals on your team. Some people may need lots 
of explanation, while others merely want to know your expectations and any 
guidelines before they're left alone to "get it done."  
 
6.3 Step 3: Communicate What You Want Done  
 
Rather than rush to give "do this, do that" orders, effective delegation consists of 
explaining the WHAT and the WHY:  
WHAT do you want the employee to do?  
WHY did you choose them to do it?  
When you delegate, include a "WHAT-WHY statement." Examples:  
I'd like you to make ten survey calls to find out what our customers think of our new 
product. Given your excellent phone manner, I think you would represent us well and 
get people talking.  
We need to turn in some financial information to state regulators by next Friday, and I 
want you to confirm all the numbers are up-to-date and accurate in our financial 
exhibits. You're a stickler for details, so I'm depending on you to crosscheck 
everything.  
Can you write a letter to our suppliers about our new purchasing policies? You're 
familiar with our expense control measures and you're a good writer, so I think you 
would be perfect to write this letter and provide the proper context.  
 
6.4 Step 4: Follow Up  
Establish checkpoints to monitor progress. This discussion should be a collaborative 
process where you reach mutual agreement on how you intend to follow up.  
You have three options to track an employee's work:  
- Scrutinize and approve every step of the assignment before the worker proceeds to 
the next stage.  
 
Pro: You ensure the project is completed satisfactorily, and you can satisfy your urge 
to know what's going on throughout the process. Many control-oriented entrepreneurs 
prefer to keep a close watch on an assignment after they delegate it, especially if it 
involves lots of details or complicated steps.  
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     12      
Drpd / Of :   19 
12 
 
Con: You might make the employee feel stupid by signing off on each step. You risk 
showing you don't trust others to think for themselves without your constant oversight. 
Plus, it takes more of your time.  
- Set a date for the individual to complete the work. Instruct the employee to come to  
you with any questions along the way; otherwise, you stay out of it.  
 
Pro: You give the worker a chance to operate independently without lots of 
interference. Your hands-off role also frees you to do what's most important.  
 
Con: You may be in for an unpleasant surprise if the work isn't done by the due date 
or it's done incorrectly, and you may have no way of knowing how it's going unless the 
employee chooses to keep you informed.  
- Designate a manager who's in charge of overseeing the employee's work. This is 
really double delegation: you're assigning work to someone and assigning a 
supervisor to monitor that work.  
 
Pro: You increase the odds the work will get done properly — without having to spend 
time tracking it yourself. You can also give your team leaders a chance to expand their 
supervisory role by making them the "contact person" for your employee and by 
having them follow the worker's progress.  
 
Con: In a fast-growing business, you may not have the luxury of putting a manager in 
charge of monitoring an employee's work. And that manager may not have the time to 
track the project carefully or provide meaningful help to the employee.  
 
 
7.  Monitoring System 
After delegating tasks, we must ensure that the work is done accordingly. Therefore, we 
must develop and maintain a certain monitoring system to monitor and control the work 
being delegated to other staff.   
- The value of effective strategic control systems  
- The key difference between “traditional” and “contemporary” control systems 
- The imperative for “contemporary” control systems in many of today’s complex and 
rapidly changing environments 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     13      
Drpd / Of :   19 
13 
 
- The benefits of having the proper balance among the three levers of behavioral 
control, culture, rewards and incentives/boundaries 
- Why there is no “one best way” to design strategic control systems and the important 
contingent roles of business- and corporate-level strategies  
- The key participants in corporate governance: shareholders, management (led by the 
CEO), and the board of directors 
- The role of corporate governance mechanisms in aligning the interests of managers 
with those of shareholders  
 
 
                                          Fig. 1 Traditional approach to strategic control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contemporary Control system 
Fig. 1  :  Traditional approach to strategic control 
 
 7.1  Contemporary Control System 
 
- Constant environmental scanning and monitoring, what is of strategic importance 
- Operational managers and professionals involved in scanning and monitoring 
- This information is best discussed using “rich media”  - face-to-face conversation - 
involving multiple levels  
- Discussion is a catalyst for critique of assumptions, data, and action plans 
 
 
 
 
                                          
 
 
Formulate/
Plan 
Strategies 
Implement 
Strategies 
Strategic 
Control 
Implement 
Strategies 
Informational 
Control 
Behavioral 
Control 
Formulate 
Strategies 
Strategic 
Control 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     14      
Drpd / Of :   19 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Contemporary elements of strategic control 
 
 
 Effective contemporary control system 
- Mission-driven 
- Promote operating legally 
- Promote operating ethically 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3   :  Essential elements approach to strategic control 
 
RULES 
(EXPLICIT) 
under conditions of: 
CULTURE 
(TACIT) 
under conditions of: 
 
• Stability 
 
• Less educated workforce, “labor” 
 
 
• Unpredictability 
 
• More educated workforce, “human 
capital” 
Essential Elements of Strategic Control 
 
Boundarie
s 
Culture Rewards 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     15      
Drpd / Of :   19 
15 
 
• Consistency is critical 
 
• Risk of malfeasance is high 
 
• Adaptability is critical 
 
• Risk of malfeasance is moderate 
 
Table.2: Organizational Rules vs. Culture 
 
 
 
 7.2   Effective Reward Systems 
 
- Objectives are clear, understood, agreed upon 
- Objectives are “stretch” level of difficulty, specific, measurable, and within a timeframe 
- Rewards are linked to performance AND desired behaviors (ends AND means) 
- Performance measures are clear and visible 
- Feedback is prompt and clear 
- The system is fair and equitable 
- The system is flexible and adjustable 
 
 7.3   Effective Boundaries and Constraints 
 
- Focus individual efforts on strategic priorities 
- Translate long-term objectives into short-term objectives 
- Create action plans to channel efforts and denote accountabilities 
- Improve efficiency and effectiveness 
 
i) Work to minimize improper and unethical conduct 
Effective delegation is an important tool that s ome managers hesitate to 
use. This may result from inexperience with delegation particularly for a 
novice manager, a reluctance to release work one personally enjoys doing, 
or even an adherence to the old adage, "If you want something done right, 
do it you rself." Here are eight basic guidelines to help you delegate more 
effectively: 
ii) Determine what you will delegate. You decide which task(s) you want to 
delegate.Keep in mind that delegating is different from simply assigning 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     16      
Drpd / Of :   19 
16 
 
someone a task that is already a part of the normal job requirements. When 
you delegate, you give someone else one of your job tasks; but you  
maintain control and responsibility. 
 
iii) Clarify the results you want. Determine the results you consider necessary 
for successful completion of the task. In general, the employee to whom 
you delegate uses his or her own methods to accomplish the task. If you 
expect use of a specific method to accomplish results, relate that to the 
employee at the beginning. 
 
iv) Clearly define the employee's responsibility. You, not the employee, 
determine the level of responsibility. Be sure the employee understands 
that level. After you have given the employee the information about the 
delegated task, ask him to tell you his understanding of both the task and 
goals. If the employee's answers do not match your expectations, review 
the matter in detail again. 
 
v) Communicate the employee's authority over the delegated task. Define the 
scope and degree of authority given to the employee for the delegated 
task. Explain which decisions he or she may make independently and 
which require your approval. Be specific. If you tell the employee, "Do 
whatever it takes," you may end up with an unpleasant surprise if the 
employee violates company standards. 
 
vi) However, a too-limited authority may stop the employee from 
accomplishing the task. Give the employee the authority necessary to 
accomplish the task but not so much authority that he or she can create a 
major disaster before anyone discovers the problem. Also, make clear the 
budget available and budgetary limitations. 
 
vii) Be sure the employee understands his or her authority. Again, have the 
employee repeat back to you his or her understanding of authority 
regarding the task. Resolve any misunderstandings at the beginning. 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     17      
Drpd / Of :   19 
17 
 
viii) Establish a time limit. Time means different thing to different people. If you 
want the delegated work completed within a certain period, make that clear 
to the employee. (If you say, "When you get time, work on this," the project 
may remain untouched for weeks.) Also, if you want portions of the work 
completed by certain dates, make that clear. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     18      
Drpd / Of :   19 
18 
 
 
8.  AVOIDING PITFALLS 
Most entrepreneurs expect their employees to wear many different hats. But some workers 
lack the versatility to take on different roles in a young company.  
Even if they're comfortable taking on a range of duties, they may lack the drive to do what 
you ask of them. They may take the easy way out, in which they keep coming back and 
asking you what to do.  
Many entrepreneurs fall into the trap by taking the assignment back unwittingly. They might 
say, "Here, let me show you," and they wind up doing the whole project.  
To avoid falling victim to the reverse delegation syndrome, make employees think or 
problem-solve for themselves. Play the role of coach. Begin by asking the employee various 
open-ended questions to find out what has already been done and what the person thinks 
should come next. Offer help and support, but don't take back an assignment that you have 
delegated to someone else.  
 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
NO. KOD / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M01/P(3/7) Mukasurat / Page :     19      
Drpd / Of :   19 
19 
 
 
SOALAN / QUESTION 
 
1. What is the definition of delegation? 
(3 Mark) 
2. Why do people fail to delegate? 
           (3 Mark)  
3. Why is delegation important? 
(3 Mark) 
 
 
 
RUJUKAN / REFERENCE (S): 
 
1. Patrick Forsyth P (2005) – Grolier Business Library. Managing Through People. 
Grolier International inc. Pages 47– 60 
2. McGraw-Hill Companies,inc (2004) – Student CD-ROM for use with Strategic 
Management Text and Cases 
 
 