12 
 
 
 
KOD DAN NAMA  
PROGRAM /  
PROGRAM’S CODE AND 
NAME 
Z-009-4:2015 CORE ABILITIES 
TAHAP / LEVEL 4 (FOUR) 
NO. DAN TAJUK 
KEBOLEHAN TERAS / 
CORE ABILITY NO. AND 
TITLE 
CA04 ETIQUETTE PRACTICES 
NO. DAN PENYATAAN 
KEBOLEHAN / 
ABILITY NO. AND 
STATEMENT 
 
04.01 ADHERE TO CODES OF ETHICAL DISCIPLINE 
04.02 COMPLY CULTURAL AWARENESS 
04.03 ADHERE TO METICULOUS PERFORMANCE 
04.04 ADHERE TO RESULT ORIENTED PRACTICES 
04.05 ADHERE PROTOCOL REQUIREMENT 
 
NO. KOD  / CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :  1 
Drpd/ of :   7 
 
TAJUK/ TITLE : CULTURAL AWARENESS 
 
 
TUJUAN/ PURPOSE :  
 
This Information Sheet is intended to describe about cultural awareness an d 
understanding of how a person's culture may inform their values, behaviour, beliefs and 
basic assumptions. Cultural awareness recognises that we are all shaped by our cultural 
background, which influences how we interpret the world around us, perceive our selves 
and relate to other people. 
 
 
 
 
 
JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN 
62502 PUTRAJAYA 
 
KERTAS PENERANGAN 
( INFORMATION SHEET ) 
 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
13 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
 
 
PENERANGAN/ INFORMATION :  
     
1. Behaviour Of Cultural Sensitivity 
 
1.1 When a business hires, it usually depends on a new employee's skills learned 
from past education or experiences to translate into a position. Unfortunately, past 
experiences and education do not always teach people how to be culturally sensitive 
toward one another, and a lack of cul tural sensitivity skills among our workforce can 
have negative consequences. 
 
1.2 Definition 
Cultural sensitivity is the awareness and sensitivity of other practices and cultures. 
Cultural sensitivity skills can include assessing different cultures, how they should be 
properly approached and how to communicate accordingly. Skills may also include 
evaluating how certain c ultural differences can affect how people work, and how to 
value differences so that discrimination and harassment, either intended or not, do 
not occur. 
 
1.3 Importance 
Cultural sensitivity skills are important for our employees to function cohesively as a 
team that is respectful and courteous to each other regardless of cultural differences. 
Also, cultural sensitivity skills may be important for certain employees who regularly 
interact with outside business clients, many of whom may have diverse backgroun ds 
and heritages. According to Prime Time Computer Services, Inc. "even one isolated 
instance of cultural insensitivity can damage the organization." 
 
1.4 Types of Skills 
Cultural sensitivity skills can encompass a wide array of abilities, depending on the  
diversity of your employees and clientele and how culturally sensitive you want 
employees to be. Typically, though, these skills may include an ability to at least build 
a functioning professional relationship with others, communicate in a respectful and 
polite manner according to which culture we are conversing with, and possess an 
ability to overlook cultural boundaries and interact on a regular basis for the good of 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
14 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
the company. For example, in some cultures it is considered customary to greet one 
another with a hug. If you are doing business in a culture such as this and you greet 
your business client with a handshake instead of a hug, your client may be offended. 
 
1.5 Implementation 
Providing training to our employees can improve our cultural sensitivity skills at work. 
Hire a workplace consultant who specializes in teaching cultural sensitivity skills and 
set aside a certain block of time either in the office or at another location where 
employees can attend training sessions or work shops and brush up on their skills. 
Require employees to take a cultural sensitivity test at the end of their training 
sessions to ensure that they retained the knowledge that was taught to them. Monitor 
interaction between employees during  the work day an d note whether our 
employees' cultural sensitivity skills have improved. If haven't, note what we see and 
discuss these notes with our workplace consultant. 
 
2. Social Isolation 
 
2.1 Definition 
i) Social isolation refers to a complete or near -complete lack of contact 
with people and society for members of a  social species. It is not the 
same as loneliness rooted in temporary lack of contact with other 
humans. Social isolation can be an issue for anyone despite their 
age, though symptoms may differ by age group. 
ii) Social isolation takes fairly common forms a cross the spectrum 
regardless of whether that isolation is self -imposed or is a result of a 
historical lifelong isolation cycle that has simply never been broken, 
which also does exist. All types of social isolation can lead to staying 
home for days or wee ks at a time; having no communication with 
anyone including family or even the most peripheral of 
acquaintances or friends; and willfully avoiding any contact with other 
humans when those opportunities do arise. Even when socially 
isolated people do go out  into public and attempt social interactions, 
the social interactions that succeed, if any are brief and at least 
somewhat superficial. The feelings of loneliness, fear of others, 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
15 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
or negative self -esteem have the potential to produce very severe 
psychological injuries 
 
2.2 Effects 
i) True social isolation over years and decades tends to be a  chronic 
condition affecting all aspects of a person's existence. People who 
are chronically isolated have no one to turn to in personal 
emergencies, no one to confide in d uring a crisis, and no one to 
measure their own behavior against or learn  etiquette from — 
referred to sometimes as  social control, but possibly best described 
as simply being able to see how other people behave and adapt 
oneself to that behavior. 
ii) Lack of consistent human contact can also cause conflict with the 
(peripheral) friends the socially isolated per son might occasionally 
talk to, or might cause interaction problems with family members. It 
may also give rise to uncomfortable thoughts and behaviors within 
the person. 
 
2.3 The day to day effects of this type of deep-rooted social isolation can mean: 
i) staying home for days or even weeks at a time due to lack of access 
to social situations rather than a desire to be alone; 
ii) both not contacting, and not being contacted by, any acquaintances, 
even peripherally; for example, never being called by anybody on the 
telephone and never having anyone visit one's residence; 
iii) a lack of meaningful, extended relationships, and especially close 
intimacy (both emotional and physical).[citation needed] 
 
2.4 Social isolation also affects the community, especially when it involves the 
elderly. 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
16 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
 
3. Prejudice 
 
3.1 Risk Factors 
i) The following risk factors contribute to reasons why individuals 
distance themselves from society:  
a) Health and disabilities - People may be embarrassed by their 
disabilities or health issues such that they have a tendency to 
isolate themselves to avoid social interaction out of fear that 
they would be judged or stigmatized. 
b) Loss of a spouse - Once a spouse has died, the other person 
may feel lonely and depressed. 
c) Living alone 
d) Unemployment 
e) Aging - Once a person reaches an age where issues such as 
cognitive impairments and disabilities arise, they are unable 
to go out and socialize. 
f) Transportation issues  - If the person doesn't h ave 
transportation to attend gatherings or to simply get out of the 
house, they have no choice but to stay home all day which 
can lead to those feelings of depression. 
g) Societal adversity - Desire to avoid the discomfort, dangers, 
and responsibilities arisi ng from being among people. This 
can happen if other people are sometimes, or often, rude, 
hostile, critical or judgmental, crude, or otherwise unpleasant. 
The person would just prefer to be alone to avoid the hassles 
and hardships of dealing with people. 
 
 
3.2 The key considerations towards cultural awareness : 
i) Be aware of your own cultural influences. 
ii) Be aware of judging other people's behaviour and beliefs according 
to the standards of your own culture. 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
17 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
iii) Be aware of making assumptions about cultural influences and 
applying generalisations to individuals. 
iv) Understand that the behaviour and beliefs of people within each 
culture can vary considerably. 
v) Understand that the extent to which people adopt practices of their 
new country and retain those from their cultural background can vary 
within communities, even within families. 
vi) Understand that not all people identify with their cultural or religious 
background. 
vii) Understand that culture itself is a fluid entity, undergoing 
transformations as a result of globa lisation, migration and the 
diaspora influence. 
viii) Increase your knowledge about different cultural practices and 
issues through cultural background information sessions and/or 
resources and cultural awareness training. 
ix) Understand the importance of appropriate communication.   

----PAGE BREAK----

 
 
 
18 
 
NO. KOD/ CODE NO. Z-009-4:2015-M04/P(2/5) Mukasurat/ Page :   
Drpd/ of :  7 
 
SOALAN/ QUESTIONS :  
 
1. What is the definition of cultural sensitivity? 
 
2. How do we want to ensure that every employees really understood of a cultural 
sensitivity? 
 
3. What is the definition of social isolation?  
 
 
 
RUJUKAN/ REFERENCE :  
 
1. http://smallbusiness.chron.com/cultural-sensitivity-skills-workplace-20375.html 
1 August 2015, 3.16pm 
2. http://www.culturaldiversity.com.au/resources/practice-guides/cultural-awareness 
1 August 2015, 3.31pm 
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social isolation 
1 August 2015, 3.45pm 