 
 
KOD DAN NAMA PUSAT BERTAULIAH  
 
SOALAN PENILAIAN PENGETAHUAN (SUBJEKTIF) 
KOD UNIT CORE ABILITY  
NAMA UNIT  ABILITY  
NAMA CALON  
NO.KAD PENGENALAN  
MASA  
TARIKH  
MARKAH  
 
Arahan kepada calon: 
1.  Tulis nama dan nombor kad pengenalan calon pada ruangan yang disediakan; 
2. Calon tidak dibenarkan membuka kertas soalan sehingga dibenarkan; 
3. Calon hendaklah menjawab semua soalan; 
4. Calon dilarang membawa nota atau sebarang bahan rujukan kecuali yang 
dibenarkan. 
5. Dilarang meniru semasa penilian; dan 
6. Dilarang membawa keluar kertas soalan dari bilik peperiksaan 
 
KERTAS PENILAIAN INI MENGANDUNGI ...02.... MUKA SURAT BERCETAK 
 
  JABATAN PEMBANGUNAN KEMAHIRAN 
  KEMENTERIAN SUMBER MANUSIA 
  ARAS 7 & 8 BLOK D4, KOMPLEKS D 
  PUSAT PENTADBIRAN KERAJAAN PERSEKUTUAN  
  62530 PUTRAJAYA 
 
   
   


----PAGE BREAK----

QUESTION I 
 
a) Briefly explain three (3) out of four (4) steps to establish an organization. 
(6 Marks) 
 
 
b) List four (4) things team members need to feel great about their workplace and to 
feel like a team member.  
(2 Marks) 
 
c) Ellaborate the steps involved  in recognizing the staff for career mobility when 
making promotion decisions and evaluating the employees' career prospects.  
                    (6 Marks) 
 
d) Ellobrate the elements of a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) and describe the two 
(2) foundamentals types of KPI.  
(6 Marks) 
 
 
 
QUESTION 2 
 
a) State and explain five (5) reasons why people fail to delegate responsibilities or tasks 
despite many advantages of delegation?  
(10 Marks) 
 
b) Discuss five (5) key elements one should define before contacting the potential vendors. 
(10 marks) 
 
 
  

----PAGE BREAK----

ANSWER 
QUESTION 1 
a. Answer : Can be any 3 steps of these 4 steps : 
 
Step 1: Create your organization's mission statement. The mission statement describes 
why your organization exists. Suggests that an initial mission statement shouldn't be longer 
than half a page. Include who the primary beneficiary is and how it will be helped, the 
values that your organization believes in, and how you want your organization to be 
perceived. 
Step 2:Verify that your beneficiary needs help and isn't served by another organization. 
Going through the trouble of starting an organization only to discover that the beneficiary 
doesn't need help is a waste of resources. Alternatively, if the beneficiary is already being 
served by another nonprofit, then you'll be forced to compete for market share -- and 
possibly damage the beneficiary in the process. 
Step 3: Fund the nonprofit. You can either seek a sponsor or raise funds. If your sponsor 
has its own tax-exempt and tax-deductible status, then it can share them with you. 
Sponsors are useful if the organization doesn't have enough money to pay for the legal 
fees associated with filing for tax-exempt status. If you plan to raise funds, you'll need to file 
Articles of Incorporation with your state attorney general. You'll also need to open a bank 
account. If you plan to sell merchandise to raise funds, you'll need to apply for a sales 
permit. 
Step 4: Apply for tax-exempt or tax-deductible status if you're not sponsored by another 
nonprofit. Once you have established your organization in your state, you can apply for tax-
exempt or deductible status with the Internal Revenue Service. Keep in mind that this 
process is often complicated. 
 
 
 
b. Answer: 
1. Appreciation and recognition 
2. A sense of belonging to a close knit team 
3. Responsibility and a feeling that their voice matters 
4. Money: pay and benefits 

----PAGE BREAK----

 
c.  Answer: need to ellobrate these steps 
 Identify potential staff for vertical mobilization 
 Performance appraisal  
 Evaluation of potential 
 Identify potential staff for performance reward 
 
 
 
d. Answer: 
Table 1: The elements of a KPI 
 
Strategy KPIs embody a strategic objective. 
Targets 
 
KPIs measure performance against specific targets. Targets are 
defined in strategic, planning or budget sessions and can take 
different forms (e.g., achievement, reduction, absolute, zero). 
Ranges 
Targets have ranges of performance (e.g., above, on, or below 
target). 
Encodings 
 
Ranges are encoded by enabling the visual display of performance 
(e.g., green, yellow, red). Encodings can be based on percentages or 
more complex rules. 
Time frames 
 
Targets are assigned time frames by which they must be 
accomplished. A time frame is often divided into smaller intervals to 
provide mileposts of performance along the way. 
Benchmarks 
 
Targets are measured against a baseline or benchmark. The previous 
year’s results often serve as a benchmark. 
 
Types of KPIs 
There are two fundamental types of KPIs: outcomes and drivers. 
Outcome KPIs known as lagging indicators which measure the output of past activity. 
Examples include revenues, margins, return on equity, customer satisfaction and employee 
retention. 
Driver KPIs known as leading indicators or value drivers which measure activities that have a 
significant impact on outcome KPI s. These KPIs measure activity in its current state or a 
future state.  

----PAGE BREAK----

QUESTION 2 
 
a. Answer: Any Five 
i) Lack of time:  
Delegating jobs does take time. In the early stages of taking over a job you may 
need to invest time in training people to take over tasks. Jobs may take longer to 
achieve with delegation than they do for you to do by yourself, when coaching 
and checking are taken into account. In time, with the right people, you will find 
that the time taken up reduces significantly as your coaching investment pays 
back.  
ii) Perfectionism - fear of mistakes:  
Just as you have to develop staff to do jobs quickly without your involvement, 
you will have to let people make mistakes, and help them to correct them. Most 
people will, with time, learn to do jobs properly.  
iii) Enjoying 'getting my hands dirty':  
By doing jobs yourself you will probably get them done effectively. If, however, 
your assistants are standing idle while you do this, then your department will be 
seriously inefficient. Bear in mind the cost of your time and the cost of your 
department's time when you are tempted to do a job yourself.  
iv) Fear of surrendering authority:  
Whenever you delegate, you surrender some element of authority (but not of 
responsibility!) This is inevitable. By effective delegation, however, you get the 
benefits of adequate time to do YOUR job really well.  
v) Fear of becoming invisible:  
Where your department is running smoothly with all routine work effectively 
delegated, it may appear that you have nothing to do. Now you have the time to 
think and plan and improve operations (and plan your next career step!)  
vi) Belief that staff 'are not up to the job':  
Good people will often under-perform if they are bored. Delegation will often 
bring the best out of them. People who are not so good will not be effective 
unless you invest time in them. Even incompetent people can be effective, 
providing they find their level. The only people who cannot be reliably delegated 
to are those whose opinions of their own abilities are so inflated that they will 
not co-operate.  
It is common for people who are newly promoted to managerial positions to have difficulty 
delegating. Often they will have been promoted because they were good at what they were 

----PAGE BREAK----

doing. This brings the temptation to continue trying to do their previous job, rather than 
developing their new subordinates to do the job well.  
 
b. Answer: any Five 
1. Date 
Everything revolves around the date of your event. Ideally you want to have three potential 
dates in mind so that you can compare availability and prices across the board. Try to include 
different days of the week for maximum flexibility. 
2. Time Frame 
One single hour difference can make an impact on your planning, so you really need to be 
specific about your anticipated time frames. For example, starting at 10am instead of 8am 
means you may not need to allocate a breakfast budget. 
3. Attendance Numbers 
This is one detail that is often too broadly estimated for productive negotiations. Get realistic 
with your  attendance projections . Discuss in advance who you will invite and put your 
projections together on a spreadsheet. Attendance and budget are directly correlated, so don’t 
haphazardly guess about the number of people you think will attend. 
4. Breakout Sessions 
You may only need one banquet room if you are hosting a dinner, but a full scale conference 
will likely require additional breakout rooms and an exhibition space. Once again, you won’t be 
able to measure costs until you define how much sp ace you need. For conferences, the best 
approach is to plan a mock itinerary in your very first meeting. Sharing ideas and piecing them 
together on paper will help steer you through the next planning decisions. 
 
5. Budget vs. Costs 
It might sound impractical to work on a budget before knowing venue and  catering costs, but 
working this way provides a benchmark for you to measure all of vendor proposals. Begin  
with your revenue sources. 
 How much should you charge for attendance? 
 Will you call on sponsors to help offset costs A? 

----PAGE BREAK----

 What will exhibitors pay to participate? 
 Revenues will ultimately dictate your budget, so it only makes sense 
to project them first. 
6. Marketing 
After you have identified your revenue sources, the next step is to outline 
your marketing plan. What is the best way to reach and engage your revenue 
generators? Perhaps you have a list of potential attendees as an employer or 
membership association. That would obviously be helpful, but what about 
sponsors and exhibitors? If you are planning to attract more exhibitors then 
you must be able to reach them. Targeted  marketing campaigns cost money, 
and that cuts into your revenues. 
7. Transportation and Lodging 
Running a local conference typically eliminates any concern s about 
transportation. However, you still need to address lodging for speakers, 
exhibitors and special guests. Some hotels provide discounts on meeting 
space if you book enough room nights. The only way to capitalize on this is by 
knowing your lodging needs in advance. Go back through your attendance 
data and project how many guests are from outside your area. 
Now all of this probably sounds like a lot of information to gather up front, and 
it is. But keep in mind that these are the details that affect everything else in 
the planning process. You might be initially attracted to the more ‘glamorous’ 
tasks, like site visits and menu plann ing. Just remember that their time will 
come. For now though, focus on the facts so that you can make the best 
decisions later. 
 
 
 
 
 